Symptoms are used in diagnosis . The term is used in medicine , and in other fields such as fault-finding in engineering .
In medicine, it refers to things the patient feels or notices. It contrasts with signs , which are changes which a doctor sees in a patient. What a patient feels is subjective , whereas what a doctor sees is objective .
In diagnosis, all symptoms and signs are brought together to make a hypothesis as to what is going wrong. This might suggest further investigation or treatment. A complete investigation ends with a diagnosis that  summarizes all this.

Symptoms are used in diagnosis . The term is used in medicine , and in other fields such as fault-finding in engineering .
In medicine, it refers to things the patient feels or notices. It contrasts with signs , which are changes which a doctor sees in a patient. What a patient feels is subjective , whereas what a doctor sees is objective .
In diagnosis, all symptoms and signs are brought together to make a hypothesis as to what is going wrong. This might suggest further investigation or treatment. A complete investigation ends with a diagnosis that  summarizes all this.

Amnesia is a what doctors call a loss or disturbance of memory . It is a loss of memory, that is to say, a person cannot remember certain things. Amnesia can be caused when someone has brain damage , a disease or when something really stressful happens.
There are two "main types":
The fact that adults usually cannot remember events that occurred in early childhood is called "infantile amnesia". It is attributed to the development of the brain or that of the child. It is not seen as a form of amnesia comparable to the other types.
There are three main categories in which amnesia can happen to a person.
In psychology , anhedonia (< Greek αν- an-, without + ηδονή hēdonē, pleasure ) is not being able to feel pleasure . This may include not enjoying things like eating, exercise, watching movies, meeting friends, social activities, or sexual interaction and activity.
In most cases, anhedonia is caused by mental disorders . It happens in some severe cases of depression and it is a common symptom of schizophrenia , schizoid personality disorder and major depressive disorder .
Anosmia is losing the the sense of smell . The word is also used for people who never had this sense. The loss can be temporary, or permanent. The conditions that cause a temporary loss of this sense include:
Smelling things depends on two nerves ( Nervus olfactorius and Nervus trigeminus ), as well as the part of the brain which processes the information. Damage to this system will affect the sense of smell; permanent damage may lead to a permanent loss of the sense of small.
There are tests that can be done to find the cause of the problem.
The sense of smell also affects the sense of taste . People who cannot small smell have only the basic tastes: sweet , sour , bitter , salty , and umami .
The painting Starry Night by Vincent van Gogh who suffered from migraine, is his impression of a migraine aura. [1]
An aura is the changes that people see, hear, smell, taste, or feel before they have an epileptic seizure , or before they have a migraine . It comes from the Greek word for breeze. The cause of the aura is related to the way the brain works, so this is a neurological condition.
There are different kinds of migraines. About 15% of people who have a migraine will have an aura. The symptoms may include visual problems like not being able to see for a short time, seeing zig-zag lines or floating spots, dizziness , a ringing noise in the ears (tinnitus), and problems speaking. [2] It may take up to an hour after the aura begins before a person starts getting a migraine.
Many people with epilepsy have an aura before having a seizure.  This can be helpful, because the aura can tell the person that a seizure is coming ahead of time, and give them time to get to a safe place.  The time between the aura and the seizure is usually short (often from seconds to minutes).
Automatic behaviour is the name for a set of actions that occur (or that continue to occur), without conscious thought. Usually, they are guided by a part of the nervous system that is called autonomic nervous system , or visceral nervous system. Automatic behaviour is like a reflex .
Many mental illnesses have certain forms of unwanted automatic behaviour.

Bibliomania can be a symptom of obsessive-compulsive disorder , by collecting of books to the point where social relations or health are in danger. It can be connected to stealing ( kleptomania ) of books.
Bibliomania is not to be confused with bibliophilia , which is the usual love of books.
Don Quixote may be the most famous bibliomaniac in fiction .
Blunt trauma is a kind of trauma that usually results from being hit by something dull and firm (like a car, a fist, or the ground).  It is also called blunt force trauma . This is different from penetrating trauma where an object, such as a bullet enters the body.
Common types of blunt force trauma include: [1]
If blunt force trauma is not too severe, it may cause only cuts (lacerations), bruises (contusions), and scrapes (abrasions).  However, bad blunt force trauma can cause many serious problems, like: [1]

Catalepsy is a nervous condition. The body is fixed, with rigid muscles and fixed posture . The body position does not respond to stimuli , and there is  decreased sensitivity to pain . [1]
Catalepsy is a symptom of certain nervous disorders or conditions such as Parkinson's disease and epilepsy . It is also a characteristic symptom of cocaine withdrawal. It may be caused by schizophrenia treatment with anti-psychotics such as haloperidol . [2] [3] It may be caused by the anaesthetic ketamine . [4] In some cases, catalepsy may be started by  an extreme emotional shock – one well known example of this was the reaction of 1968 Olympic long jump medalist Bob Beamon on finding he had broken the previous world record by over 0.5 meters (2 feet). [5] Protein kinase A has been suggested as a mediator of cataleptic behavior. [6]
Chorea (sometimes called Choreia ) is the name for a set of symptoms caused by some neurological conditions . The word "chorea" comes from Greek , where it means " dance ". People with chorea move without being able to control those movements. The movements seem to spread from one muscle to the next.
Chorea is one of the main symptoms of Huntington's disease .
Some forms of chorea are not linked to neurological conditions, though. Chorea can develop as a complication of pregnancy .  It can be a sign of hyperthyroidism . It can also be caused by drugs taken in the wrong dose. For example, L-Dopa (taken against Parkinson's disease ), certain forms of birth control , or certain antipsychotics can cause chorea if they are used in the wrong doses.
Coma is a medical term. It is a state of deep unconsciousness . People who are in that state cannot be woken up. They also do not react to pain or light . Coma can result from various conditions . Some of these are intoxication , poisons , damages or diseases of the nervous system . It can also be the result of certain drugs . Doctors sometimes put patients that have very bad injuries into a coma. There are different levels of coma. Comas usually do not last more than several weeks, but those several weeks could be disastrous . Sometimes only basic bodily functions are left over. Intensive hospital care is often needed to recover some of these functions.
Some comas can last years, but these are usually not woken up from. The family of a coma victim (or whoever has the power of Attorney ) can sign papers so that they are taken off of life support and then will die .

A cough , also known as tussis , is an action the body takes to get rid of anything that irritates the lungs or throat. To do this, muscles in the thoracic cavity contract to make air leave the lungs with a lot of force. Coughs often happen quickly and more than once, and are usually accompanied by a unique sound, also called a cough.
Coughs are more likely to happen when a person is sick, because infections often irritate breathing passages. Another cause of coughs is a person breathing air that is not clean like dust .

Delirium is a medical term. The condition is also known as acute confusional state . Doctors use it to describe patients who have lost parts or all of their ability to focus attention. People who suffer from it  may also have problems to concentrate, or to remember things or  other people. Delirium is a medical symptom . It is not a disease.
A delirium can have many causes. The most common ones include:
There are several definitions of what constitutes a delirium, but in general, the following is true:
Deliria are often treated with special drugs , called antipsychotics .
Delirium tremens (often called DTs or " the DTs ") is a medical emergency .  It is the worst form of alcohol withdrawal , [1] [2] which can happen when a person who drinks a lot of alcohol suddenly stops drinking. " Delirium " means very bad confusion that comes on quickly; "tremens" means "shaking."
Scientists think the DTs happen because the autonomic nervous system gets too excited.  It works too hard and will not shut off. [3]
DTs were first written about in 1813. [4] [5]
Most people who stop drinking alcohol do not get the DTs. But some people are more likely to get the DTs if they suddenly stop drinking. DTs are more likely in people who: [6]
Depression is a state of low mood and not wanting to do anything. It can change what a person thinks, does, feels, and sense of well-being. It may lead to being sad, make it harder to think and a large change in appetite and time spent sleeping. People who have depression may feel no hope and, sometimes, thoughts of suicide . It can either be short term or long term. [1] The main symptom of depression is said to be anhedonia , which means losing of interest in things that usually make people happy. [2] Depressed mood is a symptom of some mood disorders such as major depressive disorder or dysthymia ; [3] it is a normal reaction to life events, such as losing a loved one; and it is also caused by some physical diseases and a side effect of some drugs and medical treatments.
Diarrhea (DIE-uh-REE-uh), also spelled diarrhoea , happens when the body makes more watery feces than normal.  Diarrhea can occur in humans as well as most other mammals.
Diarrhea is not a disease .  But it may be a symptom of a disease.  The most common causes of diarrhea are: [1]
In developing nations , diarrheal diseases are the second most common cause of death in children under age 5. [2] Every year in the world, diarrhea kills around 760,000 children under age 5. [2]
In developing countries, diarrhea is also one of the most common causes of malnutrition in children under age 5. [2]
Erythema ab igne is a rash of the skin , which is usually caused by the long-term exposure to heat or infrared radiation , [1] and which is not a burn . Usually the name is abbreviated EAI . Other names include hot water bottle rash [2] fire stains , [3] laptop thigh , granny's tartan and toasted skin syndrome . [3]
Some people may complain of mild itchiness and a burning sensation. When a change in skin pigmentation can not be seen, it is often not noticed at all.

Both perception ("experiencing") and remembering are processes which involve the brain . For this reason, errors do sometimes occur. Errors in perception are commonly called illusions . Emil Kraepelin used the term "Erinnerungsverfälschung" (memory falsification) to speak about false memories . [1] [2] [3]
Perceptions need stimuli to be created. A perception without a stimulus is called hallucination . Much like the difference between illusion and hallucination, Kraepelin wanted to distinguish between a false memory and memories of something that did not really happen, which he called "Erinnerkungsfälschung". Unfortunately, both German terms translate to the same English term.
A false memory is a condition where a person remembers something that did not occur or where the memory does not closely match the occurrence.
Using suggestion and hypnosis , it is possible to make people believe they experienced something, when they did not. Such phenomena also occur spontaneously, for example in a stressful situation , or when someone is not sleeping enough .
A fasciculation , or "muscle twitch", is a small, local, involuntary muscle contraction and relaxation . At times it may be visible under the skin. Deeper areas can be detected by EMG testing. A fasciculation can happen in any skeletal muscle in the body . Fasciculations can occur in normal healthy people. [1] One uncommon reason for them is due to a lower motor neuron lesion that may be caused by any of several diseases . One example would be Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis .

A fever is when a person's body temperature is hotter than 37.5 degrees Celsius (99.5 Fahrenheit ). Normal body temperature for humans varies based on a variety of factors, including age and level of physical activity. [1] It is typically cited as 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 F), but naturally varies from person to person by at least .5 degrees Celsius. The actual measurement of body temperature will vary based on the location of the measurement.  For a temperature taken from under the tongue , the measurement may be lower. Rectal temperatures will read about 0.3 C (0.55 F) higher, and armpit temperatures will read about the same amount lower.
When people are ill, their body's immune system fights the disease , and so the body temperature rises. Fever is a defensive measure of the body against the germs: the life cycles of the germs are disrupted when the body temperature rises.
About 38 °C (100.4 F) degrees is called a low-grade fever, and above 39.5 °C (103 F) degrees is a high-grade fever.
Children usually have a higher fever than adults; their immune system is less mature. Infants have the highest normal temperature, which decreases as people age. Some animals, especially small ones like rabbits and cats , also have a higher normal temperature than humans.
The word fistula comes from a Latin word that means tube or pipe . In medicine , a fistula is an abnormal connection between two hollow spaces. This can be blood vessels , intestines , or other hollow organs . Fistulas are usually caused by injury or surgery . But they can also result from an infection or inflammation . [1] Fistulas are generally a disease condition, but doctors may create fistulas by surgery for medical reasons.
Treatment for fistula depends on the reason for the fistula and on how serious it is.  Doctors often treat fistula with surgery and antibiotics . The first step in treating a fistula is usually an examination by a doctor.  The doctor determines the size and "path" that the fistula takes in the body.
Frequent urination is the urge to urinate more often than usual. Diuretics are substances that cause frequent urination. The most common cause of frequent urination is an infection of the urinary tract . Frequent urination does not need to be linked to a disease, though: things like being pregnant or being stressed can also cause it.
Gangrene is a serious medical condition that causes the decay and death of body tissue , usually in the extremities such as the fingers, hands, toes, and feet. The two main types of gangrene are dry gangrene and wet gangrene. A third less common type is a form of wet gangrene known as gas gangrene .  A very rare type which affects the internal organs is known as internal gangrene.
Dry gangrene is usually caused by a loss of blood supply to the affected area, such as may happen following an injury which damages the blood vessels to the affected area. Wet gangrene usually occurs when a wound becomes infected with various types of bacteria . Gas gangrene is usually  caused by clostridium bacteria and mainly affects the muscles . Internal gangrene affects the internal organs, usually the intestines , gallbladder , or appendix .
There are a number of risk factors which increase a person's chances of getting gangrene. These includes advanced blockage of the arteries in medical conditions such as diabetes .

Gynecomastia is when the breast in male humans are bigger than normal. [1] It has been known to be a symptom of obesity . [2]
Halitosis is a symptom where a person has bad breath. It can be caused by bad dental care, tooth decay or gum disease .
A headache is when your head hurts. It is not when you hit your head with something and made it hurt that way, but when your head hurts from inside.
A headache can be caused by one of several things, which are listed here:
The second edition of the International Headache Classification (ICHD-2) defines more than 220 different types of headaches in three categories: [1]
Many headaches can be relieved with analgesics like aspirin .
Heartburn is an uncomfortable feeling in the chest that happens when acids from the stomach travel up the esophagus (the tube leading from the mouth to the stomach). When stomach acids hurt the lining of the esophagus, the feeling is a symptom . [1]
The burning sensation is commonly called "heartburn," but it has nothing to do with the heart . [2]
The symptom may be helped by taking antacids , such as calcium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate . [3]

Hyperactivity (word derived from Greek : ὑπέρ "hyper" and Latin : agere, actum "to act") can be described as a physical state.
People who have it can not control their overactive behavior and are abnormally active. [1]

Hysteria is when someone has a very strong emotion that is unmanageable. Often, this means a very strong sense of fear . When someone has hysteria, it is called "hysterics". Hysteria could be caused by traumatic events in a person's life.
Today, many psychiatrists and other doctors do not use the word "hysteria" for a patient. They use other words that have the same meaning. Some of the words they may use are "psychosomatic", "functional", "nonorganic", "psychogenic", or "medically unexplained".
One of the conditions of hysteria may be Histrionic personality disorder .
Itch ( Latin : pruritus ) is an unpleasant sensation that leads to the desire or reflex to scratch . Itch has many similarities to pain and both are unpleasant sensory experiences but their behavioral response patterns are different. Pain creates a reflex withdrawal while itch leads to a scratch reflex. [1] Nerve fibers for itch and pain both are in the skin , but information for them is sent centrally in two distinct systems that both use the same nerve bundle. [2]
Historically, the sensations of itch and pain have not been considered to be independent of each other until recently where it was found that itch has several features in common with pain but has important differences. [3]
The feeling of itchiness can be caused by a movement of hair or the release of a chemical ( histamine ) from cells under the skin. Itchiness is regarded as protective, as it helps creatures remove parasites that land on their skin.
Itching can be caused by:
Jaundice (also called icterus ) is when the skin and the whites of the eyes become a yellow color. [1] People with jaundice have a problem with their liver , which stops it from removing heme properly. Heme (from hemoglobin) changes to a chemical called bilirubin after red blood cell death. [1] Bilirubin causes the yellow coloring of the skin. Jaundice is common in newly born babies . It usually starts the second day after birth. [2]
Jaundice can also be caused by other diseases, like malaria , hepatitis , or gallstones.
Jaundice is the most common of all liver problems. The yellow colour of the skin and mucous membranes happens because of an increase in the bile pigment, bilirubin, in the blood . [2]
The bile , made by the liver, is a vital digestive fluid needed for proper nutrition. It also stops decaying changes in food. If the bile is stopped from entering the intestines there is an increase in gases and other products. Normally, the production of bile and its flow is constant.
Mass hysteria is a phenomenon when a large group of people share a common emotion .  This emotion can be positive, such as people being euphoric at a rock concert, or it can be negative, like after a great person or statesman died. It was first used by the Quarteerly Christian Spectator in 1830, to describe an outbreak of cholera . [1]

Mental confusion (often simply called confusion ) is a symptom . People suffering from it have problems finding their way around in the world. They have troubles remembering who they are, where they are, or what time (or day of the week) it is. Additionally, they may have trouble remembering things or memorizing new things. This may be linked to problems focusing their attention. Confusion can also be a sign of someone being sick with various illnesses when it's coupled with things like fever, chills, or exhaustion.
Confusion can be caused by many different medical problems.
There are both acute and chronic causes of confusion.
Acute causes of confusion usually come on suddenly, and doctors may be able to fix some of them.
Nausea is a general feeling of unease and discomfort in the stomach , often with the urge to vomit . The word nausea comes from the Latin word for seasickness . [1]
Nausea is a symptom , rather than an illness or disease . The causes for it very often are not in the stomach itself, but somewhere else in the body. Nausea is often caused by a stomach virus. Nausea is usually harmless, in the short term. A good treatment for it can be not to take solid food (and to only drink non-alcoholic drinks, like water). Nausea can also occur during pregnancy , and is quite normal in that context. People can suffer nausea without vomiting.
Pallor (also known as paleness ) is when the skin is a pale color. [1] It can be caused by illness , stress or even shock.
Pallor is seen most easily on the face and palms . It can develop suddenly or slowly.
Causes of pallor may include migraines , headache , hypoglycemia , anemia or scarlet fever .

A persistent vegetative state is what happens when a person in a coma becomes somewhat aware of what is happening around them.  However, they have little or no control over their body.  Most people who are in a PVS cannot live without medicine or machinery, such as a ventilator .

Intellectual disability is also called mental retardation, intellectual developmental disability, or general learning disability . [1] It is an illness of the brain. Intellectual disability often starts when someone is very young.
To have an intellectual disability, a person must: [2]
There are two major types of intellectual disability.
The first is syndromic intellectual disability . This means that the person has a syndrome that causes intellectual disability, as well as medical issues and other problems. Down syndrome and fetal alcohol syndrome are two examples of syndromic intellectual disabilities.
A phantom smell or olfactory hallucination is smelling an odor that is not actually there. It is also called phantosmia. It can occur in one nostril or both. Phantosmia with unpleasant smells, which is called cacosmia, is more common. It is often described as smelling something that is burned, foul, spoiled, or rotten. Experiencing phantom smells from time to time is normal and usually goes away on its own. [1] When hallucinations of this type do not seem to go away or when they keep coming back, this can be very upsetting and can lower an individual's quality of life. [2]
Common medical conditions such as nasal infections, nasal polyps, or dental problems can cause phantom smells. A phantom smell can also result from neurological conditions such as migraines , head injuries, strokes , Parkinson's disease , seizures , or brain tumors . It can also be a symptom of certain mental disorders such as depression , bipolar disorder , intoxication or withdrawal from  drugs and alcohol, or psychotic disorders . Certain substances in the environment can also cause phantom smells. These include tobacco smoke, certain types of chemicals (e.g., insecticides or solvents ), or radiation treatment for head or neck cancer.
A physician can determine if the problem is with the sense of smell ( olfactory system ) or taste ( gustatory system ), or if it is caused by a neurological or psychiatric disorder. Phantosmia usually goes away on its own. Sometimes this occurs step by step. The process can take several years. When a phantom smell is caused by an illness (e.g., sinusitis ), it should go away with theillness. If the problem persists or causes significant discomfort, a doctor might recommend nasal saline drops, antidepressant or anticonvulsant medications, anesthesia to parts of the nose, or in very rare circumstances, surgical procedures to remove the olfactory nerves or bulbs .
Polydipsia is excessive thirst or excess drinking. The word derives from the Greek πολυδίψιος ( poludípsios ) "very thirsty", which is gotten from πολύς ( polús , "much, many") + δίψα ( dípsa , "thirst"). Polydipsia is a symptom in many diseases . It also occurs as a weird behaviour in some animals , such as in birds . [1]
Polydipsia can be a symptom of diabetes mellitus . It is seen in cases of poorly controlled diabetes. Diabetes insipidus can also cause polydipsia. [1]
It can also be caused by a change in the osmolality of the extracellular fluids of the body, hypokalemia , decreased blood volume, and other conditions that create water deficiency. [1]
Polydipsia is a symptom and not a disease in itself. Polydipsia investigations at diagnosing diabetes insipidus and diabetes mellitus can be useful. [1]
Retching (also called dry heaving or gagging ) is when the motion of the stomach and esophagus goes backward, but there is no vomiting . It can be caused by bad smells, choking or stopping certain medications . It can also be because of stress .
Retching is different from vomiting. During a retch, pressure in the thorax goes down and pressure in the abdomen goes up. In vomiting, both pressures go up.
Retrograde amnesia is a type of amnesia when someone cannot remember what happened before the event that caused the memory loss (such as a head injury). This is different from anterograde amnesia , when someone cannot remember what happened after the event.

Schizophreniform disorder is a mental illness . Usually, people suffering from this disorder show certain symptoms of schizophrenia , but they do not have all of them, or the symptoms are not present long enough. To be recognised as schizophrenia, the symptoms need to be present a full six months. If symptoms are not present for that time period, the illness may be classified as shizophreniform disorder.
The disorder can be treated in much the same way as schizophrenia. There are certain antipsychotic drugs and therapies that can help treat the symptoms.
Sexual addiction is when people engage in sexual activities, especially sexual intercourse , even if this has negative consequences for them. [1] Some scientists believe it is one of several sex-related disorders within an umbrella concept known as hypersexual disorder . [2] The term sexual dependence is also used to refer to people who report being unable to control their sexual urges , behaviors, or thoughts.  Other related models of pathological sexual behavior include hypersexuality (nymphomania and satyriasis), erotomania , Don Juanism (or Don Juanitaism), and paraphilia -related disorders. [3] [4] [5]
Not all people agree that the condition sexual addicion exists. [6] [7] There is considerable debate among psychiatrists , psychologists , sexologists , and other specialists whether compulsive sexual behavior constitutes an addiction. They also disagree about its  classification and possible diagnosis. Research on animals has shown that compulsive sexual behavior uses the same mechanism of action that is also responsible for drug addiction in laboratory animals. As of 2018, neither  the DSM or ICD medical classifications recognise sexual addiction as a valid diagnosis.
Sinusitis means infection or inflammation of the sinuses , which are air-filled spaces inside the bones of the face. There are many symptoms, including thick nasal mucus , a plugged nose, and pain in the face. [1]
When people are dreaming , their muscles do not move, even if in their dream they are moving. This is a natural process which prevents that people actually perform the movements they do in their sleep. In general, people are not aware of this inability to move, as it usually stops as soon as they wake up. People suffering from sleep paralysis wake up and find that they are unable to move. This is because the paralysis has not stopped. Usually it lasts for only a few minutes, and people have said they feel a "presence" or " ghost " during it.
Little is known about the physiology of sleep paralysis. However, some have suggested that it may be linked to post- synaptic (neurons sending signals to other neurons) inhibition (restraint) of nerves in the pons (back) region of the brain . In particular, low levels of melatonin may stop the depolarization current in the nerves, which stops stimulation of the muscles.
Hallucinations of ghosts, demons and Out of Body Experiences during sleep paralysis may be caused by a part of the brain called the parietal lobe (top-middle part of the brain), and by neurons known as mirror neurons. [2] [3] [4]
Studies suggest that many people get sleep paralysis at least once in their lives. People who have narcolepsy often get it much more. Many people try to induce sleep paralysis, to have an Out of Body Experience .
Somnolence (also sleepiness or drowsiness ) is a strong desire for sleep . It is also sleeping for unusually long periods. It can refer to the usual state before falling asleep. It can be accompanied by lethargy , weakness and difficulty thinking. [1]
Sleepiness can be dangerous when performing tasks that require constant concentration, such as driving a vehicle .
Stevens–Johnson syndrome is a disease of the skin . In most cases, it is caused by an allergic reaction to drugs . This accounts for about half the cases. Lymphoma , and other infections are responsible for most other cases. The disease is characterized by cell death that causes the epidermis to separate from the dermis . Since this is similar to what happens in burn, some of the same methods are used to treat patients.

Syncope is the medical term for fainting or blacking out . It is a sudden loss of consciousness , usually for a short time. It is mostly because there is not enough oxygen in the brain . It can be for other reasons.
Fainting is quite common. It usually happens in two age ranges: the teenage years, and during older age. The chance of a person fainting at least once in a lifetime is about 40 to 50 percent. Syncope causes 1 to 3 percent of all attendances to emergency departments and 1 to 6 percent of all hospital admissions. [1] [2]
In psychiatry, the term thought disorder or formal thought disorder refers to a condition where people have problems with consistent and straight thinking leading to abnormalities e.g. with spoken and written language . The people who have this condition use language that is disordered, or sometimes hard to follow. According to the psychiatrists, language is a reflection of thought processes. People who have difficulty speaking therefore often also have difficulty thinking.
Thought disorder is considered to be a symptom of psychotic mental illness , but there can also be other causes for it. [1]
The condition it describes is permanent. It affects speech and writing . Those affected may speak all the time, or they may show patterns like switching ideas inside a sentence. They may also use different words that do not fit together at all; this is known as ' word salad '.
Eugen Bleuler , who named schizophrenia , held that its defining characteristic was a disorder of the thinking process. [2] However, although the delusions and hallucinations of psychosis could also be considered as disorders of thought, the term formal thought disorder applies specifically to the presumed disruption in the flow of conscious verbal thought that is inferred from spoken language. This is typically what is referred to when the strictly less accurate, more commonly used but abbreviated term, 'thought disorder', is used.
Tinnitus is a symptom of hearing loss and other hearing problems. It is described as hearing sound in the head or ears that does not come from an outside source. [1] Many people will hear ringing, buzzing, hissing or whistling sounds, but tinnitus can be other sounds such as roaring and humming as well.
Different people will hear different sounds from tinnitus but how they hear it can also be different. Tinnitus can be loud or quiet and it can be continuous or occasional and some people will not notice their tinnitus but some people become very annoyed from it, especially when then feel tired or stressed.
There are many things that can cause people to get tinnitus. These are the main reasons:
People of different range of age can develop tinnitus. It is not a disorder but the symptom of some underlying health condition.
Vomiting , also called puking , is emptying the contents of stomach through mouth . It can be either food or liquid in the stomach. It can be from infection , contaminated food or drink ( food poisoning ), foul smells or foul-tasting food, the brain being injured, a block in the small intestines so food and liquid cannot go through, too much alcohol or other drugs. Also, people can make themselves vomit (self-induced) which is called purging . Usually people who have eaten or drunk poison are made to vomit any residual (leftover) poison off. Excessive vomiting may lead to dehydration , which can be dangerous, if not fatal as it will shut down a person's organs and twist the intestines.
