Medicine is the science that deals with diseases (illnesses) in humans and animals , the best ways to prevent diseases, and the best ways to return to a healthy condition. [1]
People who practice medicine are most often called medical doctors or physicians. Often doctors work closely with nurses and many other types of health care professionals.
Many doctors specialize in one kind of medical work. For example, pediatrics is the medical specialty about the health of children . [2] [3]
In this specialty, the doctor is trained to provide anaesthesia and sedation. [4] This is important for surgeries and certain medical procedures. Anaesthesiologists also provide pre-operative assessments, ensuring the patient is safe during the operation and successfully awakens from anaesthesia after the operation. They assess for medical conditions and suitability for anaesthesia. They screen for risk factors prior to surgery and try to optimize the operative environment for the patient and the surgeon. They are the doctors who give epidurals during labor and delivery, provide spinal blocks, local nerve blocks, and general anaesthesia for procedures. They are the doctors who are especially trained in intubation (putting a tube into the lungs to help a person artificially breathe when the person is paralyzed and asleep during surgery). Hence, due to their skill in intubation, they are often the first line responders for emergencies. They help people who are in distress with their breathing, who have lost their airway or when their airway has become obstructed.
A cardiologist is a doctor with special training on the heart. [5] [6] [7] [8] The doctor in this field ensures the heart is healthy and functions properly. The heart is a vital organ whose role is to pump blood to the rest of the body. The purpose of blood is to deliver oxygen to the tissues. Without the heart functioning well, our tissues and organs would die and not function properly. Cardiologists treat heart attacks, sudden cardiac arrests, arrhythmias (rhythm issues related to a faulty electrical system of the heart), heart failure (where the heart fails to pump blood forward properly) and many other heart related illnesses. They specialize in life saving procedures like cardiac stents and cardiac ablation. There is a subspecialty within cardiology called "Interventional cardiology." These are cardiologists who specialize in interventions or procedures to save the function of the heart, such as cardiac stenting or angiography .
The second cholera pandemic is also known as the Asiatic cholera pandemic . It was a cholera pandemic that spread from India to the entire West Asia , then to the United Kingdom and the Americas , and then to China and Japan .
The cause of cholera was not known until later in the 19th century. Cholera and typhus are bacterial diseases. Cholera spread by the absence of, or defective, sewage treatment or defective water supply systems. Typhus is spread by lice , chiggers and fleas .

In 2020 and 2021, an ongoing outbreak of Avian influenza subtype H5N8 has been happening in poultry farms and in wild bird populations in several countries and continents. It has caused the cullings of millions of birds to prevent a pandemic similar to that of the H5N1 outbreak in 2008 .
The first case of human transmission was reported by Russian authorities in February 2021, as several poultry farm workers tested positive for the virus. [1]


The Abbott Laboratories [1] are an American pharmaceuticals and health care company. They have 90,000+ employees in over 130 countries. The headquarters are in North Chicago, Illinois . This organization was established by Wallace Calvin Abbott in 1888. Abbott's product line includes pharmaceuticals, nutritional, diagnostics, and vascular products.
The company has made drugs for rheumatoid arthritis , diabetes and other conditions. The company makes glucose monitoring devices for diabetics.
According to the Reuters report, Abbott acquired Alere for $4.48 billion, in April 2017. [2]
In September 2017,  Abbott announced that it has received Food and Drug Administration clearance for a consumer version of its Freestyle Libre flash glucose monitor, which does not require people with diabetes to routinely prick their fingers to check the glucose levels. [3] [4]
Abdominal obesity , also called central body obesity , is a condition involving excess fat surrounding the abdomen and an increase in waist size in humans. Obesity in this area is linked to Type 2 Diabetes , [1] insulin resistance and heart disease in humans of both genders.

Abdominal pain (also called a stomach ache ) is a pain or ache in the abdomen . It can be caused by different things, including food poisoning , indigestion , constipation , gastritis , an ulcer , hunger , appendicitis , stomach cancer or diverticulitis .

Ablutophobia is a fear of bathing , washing , or cleaning . [1] It is a type of specific phobia . It is most often seen in children and women.

In dermatology , an abrasion is a damage to the skin that affects only the surface, generally not deeper than the epidermis . But it can give mild bleeding. Mild abrasions, also known as 'grazes' do not scar , but deep abrasions may lead to the development of scarring tissue.
Abrasion injuries occur rather often when exposed skin comes into moving contact with a rough surface causing trauma to the upper layers of the epidermis.
Such injuries , where caused by abrasive contact with textiles or carpet , are sometimes referred to as ' rug burn' or ' carpet burn' .

Acral necrosis is a common symptom of the Black Death that causes skin to discolour black and can cause the area nearby to bleed . This is most common at the end of limbs (fingers, toes, ears etc.)
Acrohobia is the fear of heights . People with acrophobia experience a fear or phobia when they are at a certain height, and they are being made aware of it. The word is derived from Ancient Greek akros - top, height, and phobia - fear.  People who do not suffer from acrophobia are said to have a head for heights . Vertigo is often used to describe a fear of heights.

In medicine , an acute disease or condition either happens for a short time, as in acute infection , or doesn't last long. The word acute may often be confused by the general public to mean ' severe '. This is different: something can be acute but not severe.
The word acute is in the name of many diseases, for example, severe acute respiratory syndrome or acute leukemia .
Acute hospitals are hospitals which are meant for short-term medical and/or surgical treatment and care. The related medical speciality is called acute medicine .
Subacute is described as between acute and chronic. An example is subacute fever symptoms or subacute endocarditis .

Acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ), also known as acute myelogenous leukemia or acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( ANLL ), is a cancer of the myeloid line of blood cells. It is the rapid growth of uncommon white blood cells that build up in the bone marrow and harm the production of normal blood cells . AML is the most common acute leukemia affecting adults.
Acute radiation syndrome ( ARS ) also known as radiation poisoning , radiation sickness or radiation toxicity , is a syndrome or group of health effects which occur within months of exposure to high amounts of ionizing radiation . [1] [2] The term generally refers to acute (serious, rapid onset) problems rather than ones that develop after a prolonged period. [3] [4] [5] It is mainly damage to the blood , digestive system , and nervous system .

Acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) is a type of respiratory failure caused by a massive widespread inflammation in the lungs . Symptoms include shortness of breath , rapid breathing , and bluish skin color. For those who survive, a short life span is common as a result.
Causes may include sepsis , pancreatitis , trauma , pneumonia , and aspiration . [1]
Amphetamine mixed salts (also known as amphetamine and dextroamphetamine mixed salts , amphetamine salt combo , or simply amphetamine salts ) is a medication used in the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy . [1] It is sold under the brand name Adderall . The drug contains a mixture of the salts of amphetamine and dextroamphetamine . Both of these salts act as stimulants . The drug therefore helps people stay alert and concentrate on what they are doing. The downside of this medication is decreased fatigue, and decreased appetite.
The sustained-release (or extended-release) formulation is sold under the brand name Adderall XR. This formulation is designed to provide therapeutic effect and plasma concentrations. This is the same as taking two doses 4 hours apart. [2] The normal dosage of Adderall XR is 20 milligrams.
Adderall is a DEA Schedule II controlled substances. Its Schedule II status indicates its potential for abuse and dependence. While it does have medicinal use, abuse of the drug may lead to an addiction, clinically termed a stimulant use disorder. [3]

Adenoidectomy is the process of taking out a person's adenoids from the back of their throat through the process of surgery . They may be removed for several reasons, including difficulty breathing through the nose and having ear infections. The surgery is common in young kids. The procedure is usually performed using a substance called anaesthesia ( Greek for "without sensation "), and the substance puts a person to sleep when it is applied. Recovery time from the operation can vary from several hours to a few days.
Adenoidectomy is usually done on young children because their adenoids were infected by a virus . If the disease was to be left alone, it would worsen. The affected person could have harder times breathing or hearing, and may possibly be killed from the disease. Normally functioning adenoids help maintain the body's healthy immune system during early childhood. They shrink when a person gets older. When a person becomes an adult , their adenoids completely disappear.

Adjustment disorder happens when a person is unable to cope with or adjust to certain stressors. People who have adjustment disorder often have symptoms such as losing interest, being sad , crying, feeling anxious and constant worries. These symptoms are from outside stressors, although they resolve when individuals become used to the situations. The stressors may include, although are not limited to: hurricanes , being abused, accidents and traumatic events. This problem can happen at any age. In adults, however, adult women are diagnosed almost twice as often as men. [1]

An adrenal tumor or adrenal mass [1] is any benign or malignant neoplasms of the adrenal gland . They are known to overproduce endocrine hormones .
Adrenal cancer is when there are malignant adrenal tumors, and includes neuroblastoma , adrenocortical carcinoma and some adrenal pheochromocytomas . Most adrenal pheochromocytomas and all adrenocortical adenomas are benign tumors, which do not metastasize or destroy nearby tissues, but may cause significant health problems by unbalancing hormones.
Adrenoleukodystrophy is a disease that is linked on the X chromosome . It is a result of fatty acid digestive enzymes not breaking up the fats . These fats build up in the brain . They damage the myelin that surrounds nerves . This can cause seizures and hyperactivity . It can also cause problems with speaking , listening and understanding verbal instructions .
Adrenomyeloneuropathy is an inherited disorder .  It does not happen very often.  It is rare .  It is a form of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy . Leukodystrophy causes a disruption to the myelin covering that protects nerves .

An airborne transmission is transmission of diseases through small particulates that can be passed through the air over time and distance. [1]
Diseases that can be infected through airborne transmission may be viruses , bacteria , or fungi , and they may be spread through breathing, talking, coughing, sneezing, raising of dust, spraying of liquids or even flushing toilets .
Alien Hand Syndrome (also known as anarchic hand , AHS or Doctor Strangeglove Syndrome ) is a condition that seems to cause a person's hand to move on its own. [1]

Alprazolam , probably better known by its trade name Xanax , is a short-acting drug. The drug is used to treat people with anxiety disorders and panic attacks . Alprazolam is the most commonly misused benzodiazepine (the drug's class) in the United States ; but the majority of prescribed users do not develop a substance-use disorder. Alprazolam is a prescription drug in the United States.
Alternative medicine describes practices used in place of conventional medical treatments. Some patients seek these practices along with conventional medicine . When the patient's medical doctor coordinates with an alternative medicine therapist, this is called "complementary medicine." [1]
Alternative medicine includes practices that incorporate spiritual , metaphysical , or religious belief; non-evidence based practices, non-European medical traditions, or newly developed approaches to healing.
Examples include acupuncture , chiropractic and homeopathy .
Aminoglycosides are antibiotics used for gram negative infections. Gram-negative means that the bacteria which cause the infection don't hold the color of a particular dye (Crystal Violet) when they're tested.
Since they are not absorbed from the gut, they are usually taken by an injection into the vain or muscle but they can be given as a cream or ointment to prevent and treat skin infections, as eye drops for eye infections, as ear drops for ear infections and as a pill for intestinal infections but not for other internal infections.
Antibiotics from this family can be used in patients who are not able to take some regular antibiotics, such as Penicillin because of allergies.  The most common Aminoglycosides used as alternatives to Penicillin are Erythromycin (lit. Red fungus ) and Clarithromycin (lit. Yellow fungus ).  They're most commonly used in the treatment of bacterial infections, such as Bronchitis .
Kanamycin A
Amikacin
Amniocentesis is the name of a medical test that is often performed when screening babies . The test consist of taking a little Amniotic fluid , and testing this fluid . This fluid contains tissue of the embryo or fetus , and allows to determine the sex . It also allows to find certain birth defects .

Amphetamine is a synthetic drug . The drug is a stimulant : it can help people keep the focus and stay awake. It also decreases appetite and fatigue . Chemically, it is similar to methamphetamine . These drugs increase the level of dopamine and norepinephrine in the brain , which can create euphoria . [1] [2] The class of drugs containing amphetamine includes prescription drugs commonly used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It is also used to treat symptoms of traumatic brain injury (TBI) and the daytime drowsiness symptoms of narcolepsy , amongst others. Initially, amphetamine was more popularly used to reduce appetite and to control weight.
Sometimes, the drug is used for fun or to boost performance.  Many different names are used for amphetamines.  They include Benzedrine and speed .  The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction reports the typical retail price of amphetamine in Europe varied between €3 and €15 ($4 to $21.55 USD ) a gram in half of the reporting countries. [3] The name amphetamine is derived from its chemical name: a lpha- m ethyl ph en et hyl amine .

Amputation is the act of cutting off a part of the human body , sometimes because of medical reasons. In some countries, amputation of the hands, feet or other body parts was used as a form of punishment for people who committed crimes . A person who has had an arm or leg removed is known as an amputee.

Amyloidosis is a rare and serious disease that could be fatal that is caused by accumulation of proteins in the form of abnormal, insoluble fibres, known as amyloid fibrils, within the tissues of the body. [1] [2]
Amyloid deposits can be confined to only one part of the body or a single organ system in 'local amyloidosis' or they can be widely distributed in organs and tissues throughout the body in 'systemic amyloidosis'. The symptoms of amyloidosis are accordingly highly variable and confirmation of the presence of amyloid in the tissues can be challenging, so that diagnosis is often delayed.
There are many different types of amyloidosis, each caused by formation of amyloid fibrils from different soluble precursor proteins in different patients. [2] [3] About 30 different proteins are known to form amyloid fibrils in humans [4] and amyloidosis is named and classified according to the identity of the respective fibril protein. [3]
Though this disease being rare, many famous people have died from this disease such as: Martin McGuinness , David Lange , Robert Jordan and Robert P. Casey .
Analgetics (one analgetic ) (or analgesics ) is a word for some drugs that are used to stop pain . [1] These are also known as painkillers . [2] There are several kinds of painkillers. All act on the nervous system . Some painkillers (such as opioids ) can make people addicted if they are taken for a long time. Some painkillers have side effects that can harm people when they take too much (e.g., too much paracetamol can be dangerous for the liver)

Analytical psychology is the school of psychology that came from the ideas of Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung . Analytical psychology has two main parts:

Anaphia , also known as tactile anesthesia , is a medical symptom in which there is a total or partial loss of the sense of touch. [1]
Anaphia is a common symptom of spinal cord injury and neuropathy .
An anaphrodisiac is something that makes the one who uses it less aroused . This can be a medicine , [1] a food or a procedure. [2] It is sometimes used to treat hypersexuals . [3] It is also used for an animal that is in heat. [4] Pills that lower the libido are sometimes called antaphrodisiacs . [5]
An anesthesiologist (also anaesthesiologist ) is a doctor of medicine . An anesthesiologist ( American English ) or anaesthetist ( British English ) is a professional trained in anesthesia and perioperative medicine. Terminology varies between countries. The main jobs of an anesthesiologist are:
The first anesthesiologist was John Snow (1813–1858).

An anesthetic or anaesthetic is a substance that stops pain .  It makes people either stop hurting, or go completely to sleep during surgery .  Anesthetic can be rubbed onto the skin, given by injection ("shot"), or given as a gas to breathe .  The use of an anesthetic is called anaesthesia.  Anaesthesia blocks the pain during operations.  This lets patients undergo surgery and other procedures without the distress and pain they would normally feel.  It comes from Greek roots an-, "without" and aesthetos, "perceptible, able to feel".
The modern anesthetic was created by Joseph Lister .  Before it, people sometimes used cocaine , alcohol , and other drugs. Modern anaesthesia is highly complex and often involves a combination of anaesthesia, analgesia and muscle relaxation to enable physicians to do their part. These three tasks are known as the triad of anaesthesia.

Angiography or arteriography is the name for several imaging techniques to show the inside of blood vessels . These techniques include:

Animal euthanasia ( euthanasia from Greek : εὐθανασία ; "good death") is the act of putting an animal to death or allowing it to die by without it facing extreme medical measures. Reasons for euthanasia include incurable (and especially painful) conditions or diseases, [1] lack of resources to continue supporting the animal, or laboratory test procedures.
Euthanasia methods are designed to cause minimal pain and distress. Euthanasia is distinct from animal slaughter and pest control although in some cases the procedure is the same.
In pet animals, this process is commonly referred to by euphemisms such as "put down" or "put to sleep".
Ankylosing spondylitis ( AS ) is a type of arthritis . There is a long-term inflammation of the joints of the spine . [1]
Usually the joints where the spine joins the pelvis are also affected. Eye and bowel problems may also occur. Pain in the back is a typical symptom of AS, and it often comes and goes. [1] Stiffness of the affected joints usually gets worse over time. [1] [2]

Antacids (or indigestion tablets) are used to help stop indigestion . [1] People may get indigestion if they eat too much or if they have eaten too fast. With indigestion, the liquid in the stomach will become more acidic. Antacids will neutralise the acids. The reaction that is happening is called neutralisation . This is because the tablets are alkaline and the liquids in the stomach are acidic.
This reaction between the stomach acids and the antacid will make the acid change into harmless substances such as water or salt.
An example of an antacid is milk of magnesia .
Side effects from taking antacids are rare, but can include both constipation and diarrhea . [1] They are also high in sodium so people with a heart condition on a low salt diet should ask their doctor before taking them. [1]
An anticoagulant is a chemical injected under the skin or directly into a vein that stops blood clots .


An Antimony pill is a pill made from metallic antimony . It was a popular remedy in the nineteenth century, used to purge and revitalise the bowels. In use, it is swallowed and allowed to pass through the body, after which it is recovered for reuse. They called it the everlasting pill . [1]

An Antiplatelet drug is a drug that acts against blood clotting. The blood contains platelets , which will stick together, and close an open wound. In some cases, they also stick together in the bloodstream, and form blood clots . Such blood clots cause Strokes and Heart attacks . Another type of drug that prevents clotting is called anticoagulant . Anticoagulants cannot be used to prevent blood clotting in the arteries . Antiplatelet drugs are commonly used in the prevention of strokes and heart attacks. Acetylsalicylic acid , commonly known as Aspirin, is one of them.
Antipsychotic drugs or Neuroleptics are drugs that act on the central nervous system , and that usually have sedating properties. The name neuroleptic was introduced in 1955, from the 1990s, the term antipsychotic is used more frequently. Neuroleptics make the patient calm. Today, they are mostly used for the treatment of psychosis , as it occurs in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder . They can also be used to treat depression and mood swings. Very strong antipsychotics can be combined with an opioid to produce a special analgesic ; the patient will be conscious, but heavily sedated , and feel very little pain .
The main inventor of this drug was Andrew J. Smith whom at the time was 16 when he made it. He created this drug that has saved hundreds of people with schizophrenia.
An antiseptic is a substance that is applied to lesions or wounds of the skin to kill germs . This helps prevent the wound becoming infected .
Commonly used antiseptics include alcohol , iodine and mercury compounds . Antiseptics are different from antibiotics . Antiseptics can only be used on the skin, antibiotics can also be used internally, through the blood and lymphatic systems . They are also different from disinfectants : Disinfectants are used on non-living objects only, because they are dangerous to the living.

An antivenom is a medicine used to protect against a specific venom. (A venom is a poison released by a snake or insect.) Frequently the venom of some creature such as a cobra will be harvested and a little will be injected using a hypodermic needle into a horse every day for a long time. The horse's body will develop an immunity to the venom, so more and more venom from the snake can be injected every day. After the horse is immune, its blood can be drawn little by little to get the part of the blood that makes the horse immune. That part can then be injected into humans who have been bitten by cobras.
There are antivenoms for the very large and very dangerous funnel-web spiders found in Australia, and for the widow spiders (such as the black widow) found all around the world.
Anxiolytics are drugs that are used for the treatment of anxiety , and anxiety-related disorders . [1] The common drugs can be classified:
In addition to these drug classes, there are also certain plants that have such properties. Many of the drugs listed above have side-effects . For this reason, they are only available on prescription . Certain forms of therapy have also been used to treat anxiety disorders.
Anxiolytics are said to act on key biochemical messengers in the brain and eventually decrease the abnormal excitability. The biochemical messengers or binding sites are unevenly distributed in the brain, and also said to be associated with a GABA receptor and a chloride channel. [2] [3]
An appendectomy or appendicectomy is when a doctor removes the vermiform appendix . This is commonly done as a treatment for appendicitis .
Argon plasma coagulation (APC) is the medical procedure to stop bleeding from an active bleeding site of the gastrointestinal tract. It is done with the help of endoscopy technique.

Aripiprazole (also called Abilify ) is an antipsychotic medicine used for treatment of schizophrenia , bipolar disorder , autism and an adjuvant for major depression , which was first approved by Food and Drug Administration of the United States in November 2002. The first approval was for the treatment of schizophrenia . Later approvals were for bipolar disorder and depression. Common side effects include increase of blood sugar , vomiting , nausea and dizziness.
Arteriovenous malformation is a rare disorder . It affects the areas between arteries and veins , and bypasses the capillary system.
This happens in the central nervous system (usually cerebral AVM ), but may appear in any location. The disease can cause intense pain or bleeding or lead to other serious medical problems such as cerebral hemorrhages or strokes .
AVMs are usually congenital . The genetic patterns of AVMs are incomplete, but there are known genetic mutations . [1]
The general symptoms of a cerebral AVM include headaches and epileptic seizures . More specific symptoms occurring that normally depend on the place of the malformation.

A pacemaker is a device created by Earl Bakken that helps to regulate your heart . It uses electrical pulses. If your heart is beating too fast, the pacemaker slows it down. If your heart slows down, the pacemaker will slightly speed it up, so that it goes back to a normal heart beat.

Bacteria are used to test the effectiveness of disinfectants and antibiotics . Therefore, it is important that bacteria are not contaminated with other microorganisms . To prevent contamination, aseptic techniques are used.
These include:

Assisted suicide is when somebody who wants to commit suicide ( wants to die ) is helped to do this by someone else.  Normally, people who ask for assisted suicide are very ill and in a lot of pain, so they want someone to help them to die, for example by being given access to drugs which will kill them. Some people prefer the terms aid in dying or death with dignity to describe assisted suicide. The term euthanasia is sometimes used, although euthanasia is generally regarded as different to assisted suicide, as it involves causing a person to die rather than helping them to kill themselves.
The law about this varies a lot in different countries.  In Belgium , the Netherlands , Switzerland and in three American states it is legal to help someone to die in these circumstances.  However, in many countries it is not allowed, and the person who helps someone to die may be arrested and sent to prison .
Some people who are very ill and want to die may go to these countries, such as Switzerland, in order to end their life.
Coordinates : 31°47′12″N 35°14′57″E ﻿ / ﻿ 31.78667°N 35.24917°E ﻿ / 31.78667; 35.24917
Augusta Victoria Hospital is a hospital on Mount of Olives , Jerusalem . It was built in 1907. It was named after Augusta Viktoria of Schleswig-Holstein , the wife of German Kaiser Wilhelm II .

Autotransplantation is transplanting tissues from one part of the body to another part of the same person. Skin grafts are a common example.
Another example: a piece of bone (usually from the hip) is removed and ground into a paste when reconstructing another portion of bone.

Ayurveda ( / ˌ ɑː j ʊər ˈ v eɪ d ə , - ˈ v iː -/ ) [1] is an alternative medicine system from the Indian subcontinent . [2] Ayurveda is [scientific]. [3] [4] [5] The Indian Medical Association (IMA) says the practice of modern medicine by Ayurveda is quackery . [6] Ayurvedic texts say that the gods of Hindu mythology gave medical knowledge to legendary Hindu philosophers , who then gave the knowledge to human physicians . [7] The word "ayurveda" is from the Sanskrit : आयुर्वेद , Āyurveda , and means knowledge of life and longevity . [8]
In Ayurveda, the story is that Dhanvantari , the Hindu god of Ayurveda, made himself into a human king by incarnation . He was king of Varanasi , and taught Ayurvedic medicine to a group of physicians. One of these physicians, named Sushruta, wrote the Sushruta Samhita ( Sushruta's Compendium ), an Ayurvedic text that has this story in it. [9] [10]
Most Ayurvedic therapies are made from chemical compounds taken from plants, from minerals , and from metals . In ancient India , Ayurvedic texts gave explanations for surgeries and for the stitching of wounds to help wound healing . The ancient Indians knew how to take out kidney stones and how to do rhinoplasty ( plastic surgery for the nose). [11] [12] People have used many different Ayurvedic therapies through the history of India . Ayurveda has changed for more than two thousand years. [2] In the 1970s and 1980s, Ayurveda also changed for consumption in the Western world .
Some people say Ayurveda comes from Prehistory . [13] [14] Some ideas in Ayurveda may have been in existence at the time of the Indus Valley civilization , during the Bronze Age in India. [15] During the Vedic period , Ayurveda went through many developments. Outside the tradition of the Vedas , Buddhism and Jainism also shared some ideas with the Ayurvedic texts from ancient India. [15] By around two thousand years ago, Ayurveda had developed some of its ideas for surgery and drugs . [16]
There is no good evidence that works or helps for any disease . [17] Some Ayurvedic products have lead , mercury , and arsenic in them. [18] In 2008, nearly 21% of Ayurvedic products sold on the internet and made in India and the United States had in them lead , mercury , and arsenic ( heavy metals ) in quantities that are toxic . [19] There may be public health dangers that result from this, but that is not known. [19]
Azathioprine is an immunosuppressant drug . It is used in, for example, the organ transplantation of kidneys .

Bacillus Calmette–Guerin is a vaccine against tuberculosis . It is often abbreviated BCG . The vaccine is based on a bovine strain of the bacterium . It was developed by Albert Calmette and Camille Guerin in the 1930s. It looks like the vaccine can also be used to treat certain forms of bladder cancer . [1]

A bandage is strip of cloth or other material that is used to stop and absorb blood from wounds .
In common speech, the word "bandage" is often used to mean a dressing , though technically the two are different things.
See these links:

Barbiturates are a group of drugs that are derivates of Barbituric acid . Adolf von Baeyer was the first to produce Barbituric acid, in 1863. For many years, barbiturates were used as sedatives . Today, their use is very limited in many countries, mainly because they cause addiction and people soon develop a tolerance . People with a drug tolerance will need a higher dosage of the drug to get the same effect as before. [1] After a while, the drug becomes useless for such people.
Barbiturates were once used as a primary treatment for Epilepsy ; this is especially true for the substance called Phenobarbitol or Phenobarbitone .  The sedative side effect of the drug made it increasingly unpopular, and it is now prescribed less for epilepsy, in favor of other drugs that do not have sedative effects.
Benzodiazepines are another group of drugs, which have sedative properties: They make people sleepy, and help them sleep. In contrast, Barbiturates force people to sleep. In the case of severe sleeping problems which cannot be controlled by other drugs, Barbiturates are sometimes used as off-label drugs .
A bat-borne virus is a virus that is transmitted through bats . Bats are vectors for these viruses, they  transmit them either through their saliva , or through their feces . Known examples of bat-borne viruses are the coronaviruses (such as those causing SARS and MERS ), the Ebola virus , and some forms of rabies . Many bats live in groups, which remain close to each other for a long time. It is believed that this habit helps the spread of infections . Because of their ability to fly, bats also spread the viruses in a larger area than rodents do.

Benadryl is a brand name for a number of different medications to relieve allergies and coughs . It usually contains antihistamine diphenhydramine . In the United Kingdom, it contains either the antihistamine acrivastine or the long-acting antihistamine cetirizine . Benadryl products are sold in Australia and New Zealand as a cough medicine and do not contain any antihistamine. [1] [2]

The word benign is often used to refer to a medical condition that will not become life-threatening if it is not treated , but can also mean that something is not harmful .  It is often used in relation to tumours that do not metastasise to other parts of the body .  Tumours that are referred to as being benign may still be life-threatening because of other reasons.  Because of this, the term applies mainly to their biological behaviour.
Tumors that are benign may be at risk of changing into malignancy .  These are termed " premalignant ".
Beta blockers is the name for a class of drugs that inhibit the hormone adrenalin and the neurotransmitter noradrenalin . Adrenalin is mainly released in stress situations; blocking its pathway will lead to lowering the heart rate, and blood pressure .

Bevacizumab is an anti-angiogenic drug that is used in the treatment of Metastatic Renal cell carcinoma , Metastatic breast cancer , Non-small cell lung cancer , and is also approved in the treatment Glioblastoma multiforme . [1]
Bibliomania can be a symptom of obsessive-compulsive disorder , by collecting of books to the point where social relations or health are in danger. It can be connected to stealing ( kleptomania ) of books.
Bibliomania is not to be confused with bibliophilia , which is the usual love of books.
Don Quixote may be the most famous bibliomaniac in fiction .
Binge eating [1] is a disease characterized by episodes of compulsive overeating.
It has the following characteristics:
The vicious cycle of binge eating
It can make people feel satisfied for a while, but after that, they will feel guilty and they will regret eating so much. People overeat to feel better, but they actually feel worse, and go back to overeating for relief, forming a vicious cycle.
Other characteristics:
If binge eating becomes a pattern, this is an eating disorder . People who suffer from this have a high risk of weight gain . They may feel ashamed of their eating habits and become depressed . People who binge and then purge , (usually by vomiting ), have a different eating disorder called bulimia . People with anorexia may also binge and purge.
A biopsy is a test in medicine where doctors remove cells and look at them closely under a microscope or do chemical analysis to see whether there is an illness .
Biopsy is a Greek word, from the Greek words bio meaning "life" and opsia meaning see.

Biricodar is dicitrate salt called Incel . It is a pharmaceutical drug made by Vertex Pharmaceuticals in 1999 to help treat ovarian cancer patients.

A birth defect (or congenital disorder ) is a defect in a baby at birth, or which develop in the first month of life. [2] It is neutral as to whether the cause is genetic (inherited birth defect) or environmental (causes in the environment, that is, outside the foetus ).
If a condition is said to be "congenital", that is neutral language. Often it is not known what causes a condition found at birth. In common use, it is often redirected to "birth defect". That term is also neutral as to cause.
There are two main types of congenital defect. The first is caused by genetic abnormalities , which are hereditary . The second may be caused by conditions (such as infectious diseases ) which a baby may get. [3] However, we may not know what caused the condition.
Sometimes doctors may find out that a baby has a congenital disorder before its birth. They use prenatal diagnosis and screening tests, such as amniocentesis . [4]
Some gene alleles (versions of a gene) can damage the baby.
Blood donation is when a person voluntarily gives blood, which can be used for blood transfusions or to make certain drugs . Blood banks store this blood. The blood can be used to help the victims of accidents , for example. Usually, the blood donor and the donated blood are tested for diseases which spread through the blood. These include various forms of Hepatitis , HIV and Syphilis . Usually a series of questions also need to be answered to make sure that there is no risk to the person donating.
A special case of blood donation sometimes occurs before a medical operation that is dangerous. People donate their own blood, which can be used after the operation if they lose too much blood.
Blood doping is a way of increasing the number of red blood cells in the bloodstream. This is done to improve athletic performance. Because blood cells carry oxygen from the lungs to the muscles , a having more red cells in the blood can improve an athlete’s aerobic capacity (VO 2 max) and endurance . [1] Many methods of blood doping are illegal, particularly in professional sport.
There are a number of different methods. Frozen blood taken from the individual previously can be used for a later transplant; packed red cells from a compatible donor may be used, and blood substitutes may be used. The growth area in illegal blood doping of athletes is blood substitutes.



Blood draw is when blood gets taken from a vein using a hypodermic needle . It is stored in special blood bottles. These bottles are called vacutainers . There is usually a liquid or mist in the bottle that moves blood inside it.
A blood film or peripheral blood smear is a thin layer of blood smeared on a microscope slide and then stained in such a way to allow the various blood cells to be examined microscopically. Blood films are usually examined to investigate disorders of the blood and, occasionally, to look for parasites within the blood such as malaria and filaria. [1]

A blood test , also known as bloodwork , is a laboratory analysis performed on a blood sample. The sample  is usually taken from a vein in the arm using a needle , or via fingerprick .  Blood tests [1] are used to determine physiological and biochemical states, such as disease , mineral content, drug effectiveness, and organ function. They are also used to test for certain drugs .
Blood transfusion is a medical term. It means a procedure used to transfer blood (or some products based on blood) from the circulatory system of one human to that of another human.
Blood transfusions can save the life of a person, if that person has lost a lot of blood. A person can lose blood from an injury , a trauma or from a medical operation. Blood transfusions can also be applied as a treatment to certain diseases of the blood (like Anaemia , for example).
Blood is not collected and used immediately.  Instead it is kept until it is needed.  The storage area is informally called a blood bank . By adding anti-coagulant to keep the blood from clotting and refrigerating the blood, it is possible to store it for a few days.  Information about transfusion and donation is available at the National Institutes of Health website [1] .
Not all people are able to donate blood to all other people. Testing for blood types usually prevents any bad reaction to a blood transfusion. However, there are special problems for anyone with rare blood groups. It is very important, in order to avoid any complications during a blood transfusion, to detect individuals with rare blood types. The usual tests for ABO blood group system would show them as group O. It may not be possible to give a blood transfusion at all unless the repository has supply of blood which will not cause a reaction.it donates blood

Bloodletting is the practice  of withdrawing blood from a patient to cure a disease . The practice was widely used in Antiquity and the Middle Ages . People stopped using it in the 19th century . The idea of bloodletting comes from an ancient system of medicine called Humorism : This system states, that there are different humors in the body. To remain healthy, a patient had to keep these humours in balance. Bloodletting was the most common medical practice performed by physicians from antiquity until the late 19th century, a span of almost 2,000 years. [1]
It was found that only in very few cases, this treatment helps cure a disease. The practice has now been abandoned for all except a few very specific conditions . [2] There was no other treatment for hypertension . Bloodletting could sometimes have had a beneficial effect in temporarily reducing blood pressure by reducing blood volume. [3] The problem with hypertension is that it is difficult to diagonse from its symptoms . Modern methods directly measure blood pressure. In Antiquity, this  effect was therefore unintentional. In most cases, the historical use of bloodletting was harmful to patients. [4]
The diseases where bloodletting actually helps include Polycythemia vera . In this disease, the number of red blood cells is increased, which changes the viscosity of the blood. Another disease is Polycythemia , which also leads to an increased number of red blood cells.

Bone marrow failure happens when people who produce a low amount of red blood cells , white blood cells or platelets . Red blood cells transport oxygen to be spread throughout the body’s tissue. White blood cells fight off infections that enter the body.
Bone marrow also has platelets , which trigger clotting , and thus help stop the blood flow when a wound occurs. [1]
Bone metastases are when a cancer spreads to the bones . This is called metastasis . People with breast and prostate cancer have more bone metastases than other cancers. However, almost any other cancer can spread to the bone.
Symptoms of bone metastases include:

Bowel obstruction , also known as intestinal obstruction , is a mechanical or functional obstruction of the intestines which prevents the normal movement of the products of digestion . [1] [2] Either the small bowel or large bowel may be affected. [3]
Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain , vomiting , bloating and not passing gas .

Breast augmentation is a surgical procedure used to increase the size of the breasts .
Usually, implants are used, but another technique called fat grafting is sometimes used. The size increase can be as small as one cup size, or as large as 10 cup sizes or more.
The larger the increase, the greater the risk of complications . Complications may include leaking of the implants, which may require the implants to be replaced. With larger breasts the whole weight balance of the body is changed, which may cause stress to the muscular and skeletal systems.
A surgical implant is either an implant filled with saline -solution, or an implant filled with silicone -gel. The fat-graft transfer uses grafts of adipose fat tissue from the woman’s own body. A full assessment of this method is not yet available. The method does not allow for the huge size increase possible with implants, and slim women may not have enough fat tissue to allow the method to be used.

Breast reduction is a plastic surgery to make human breasts smaller. The doctor takes out fat , skin , and glands . It is done on women most of the time, but men can also get it. In 2005 , more than 113,000 women had breast reductions. [1] [2]
Aside from aesthetic reasons, many women choose to undergo breast reduction surgery to help reduce back strain, skin irritation, or breathing problems caused by large breasts.

The Bristol stool scale is a medical diagnosis tool used by Doctors to classify the way feces looks into 7 different categories . [1] It is also known by the names, Bristol stool chart and Bristol stool form scale .
It was developed at Bristol Royal Infirmary in 1997 as a clinical assessment tool, but is also used to help with patients who can't speak, so that they can show their doctor if they have a problem with their bowels (a clinical communication aid ).  It's also used to help diagnose Irritable Bowel Syndrome .
The seven types of feces described by the scale are:

The British Medical Journal ( BMJ ) is a popular peer-reviewed general medical journal. It is published by the BMJ Publishing Group in London . There is an online version.

Bupropion is an antidepressant .  It is also used to help people quit smoking . [1] It is marketed as Wellbutrin.

In medicine , a bypass usually means making another route for the blood to flow.  Sometimes an artery , the channel through which the blood flows, becomes blocked up.  The patient has a bypass operation .  Very often the surgeon will take part of a vein from the patient's leg and move it to the place with the blockage so that the blood can flow round the blocked part.
The Cancer Council Australia is a national, not-for-profit organisation which aims to promote cancer -control policies and to reduce the illness caused by cancer in Australia . It advises various groups, including the government, on cancer-related issues, acts as an advocate for cancer patients and their families, and is a major funding contributor towards cancer research .
Cancer of unknown primary origin ( CUP , " occult cancer ") is a term used to describe a cancer that is said to be at the metastatic stage at the time of diagnosis, but a primary tumor cannot be identified. A diagnosis of CUP requires a clinical picture  with metastatic disease and one or more biopsy results inconsistent with a primary tumor. [1]
CUP is found in about 3 to 5% of all people diagnosed with invasive cancer, [2] and carries a poor prognosis in most (80 to 85%) of those circumstances.  The other 15 to 20% of patients, however, have a relatively long survival with appropriate treatment. [2]
Cannabis drug testing describes many drug testing methods for the use of cannabis in medicine, sport, and law. [1] Cannabis use is easy to detect using urine testing, hair analysis and breath. There are some ways to cheat such a test using synthetic urine or human hair - making blood testing the most effective. [2]
Unlike alcohol, Cannabis testing is time consuming, expensive and cannot give accurate time of consuming and level of intoxication. [3] The lack of good testing methods and universal intoxication level scale is an issue in the legality of cannabis debate, especially regarding intoxicated driving . [4]
Cardiology (from Greek καρδίᾱ , kardiā , "heart"; and -λογία , -logia ) is a medical field that deals with disorders of the heart and blood vessels . Physicians in this field are called cardiologists. Cardiologists are different from cardiac surgeons who do cardiac surgery .
Cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) is a kind of disease that involves the heart or blood vessels . [1] Cardiovascular disease includes coronary artery diseases (CAD) such as angina and myocardial infarction (commonly known as a heart attack). [1] Other CVDs are stroke , hypertensive heart disease , rheumatic heart disease , cardiomyopathy , atrial fibrillation , congenital heart disease , endocarditis , aortic aneurysms , and peripheral artery disease . [1]

Cefalexin is a type of drug called an antibiotic . It is a type of antibiotic called a cephalosporin. [1] Cefalexin can treat some bacterial infections in areas including the ear , bone , joint , skin , and bladder .  It may also be used for some types of pneumonia and strep throat . Like other antibiotics, cefalexin cannot treat viral infections, such as the flu or common cold . [1]
Cefalexin can be used in children and people over the age of 65. [1] Using it during pregnancy [2] or breastfeeding [3] has not been shown to cause harm to the baby. [1] People with kidney problems may need lower doses of cefalexin. [1]
Common side effects include diarrhea , vomiting , and upset stomach . Allergic reactions can occur, such as rash or even trouble breathing . [1] An allergic reaction and infection with Clostridium difficile (C. diff) , a severe diarrhea, is also possible. [1]
Cefalexin can interact with some drugs. [4] These interactions are usually mild. [5] BCG can treat cancer and also is a tuberculosis vaccine . [6] Cefalexin and BCG cannot be taken together because the effects of BCG will decrease. [7] Alcohol may affect the absorption of the drug. [8]
This drug can be taken by mouth in the form of a tablet, capsule, or suspension. [4] It is taken with or without food. [4]
Central nervous system diseases , also known as central nervous system disorders , are a group of neurological disorders that affect the structure or function of the brain or spinal cord . They form the central nervous system (CNS). [1] [2] [3]
A central venous catheter ( CVC ) or " central line " is a catheter put in a large vein in the neck , chest , or groin when a patient needs close cardiovascular monitoring, for assessment of fluid status, and so that intravenous drugs and fluids can be given to the patient more effectively.  The veins most commonly used are the internal jugular vein , the subclavian vein , and the femoral vein .

The Centre hospitalier intercommunal de Poissy-Saint-Germain-en-Laye is a well-known hospital in the Poissy and Saint-Germain-en-Laye , close to Paris . It has been created in 1997. [1] He is partner of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines . [2]



Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA), also known as congophilic angiopathy , [1] is a form of angiopathy in which amyloid comes out of the walls of the blood vessels of the central nervous system. [2]
The term congophilic is used because the amyloid appears red when looked under a microscope when Congo red dye is used. The amyloid material is only found in the brain and as such the disease is not related to other forms of amyloidosis . [3]
A cerebral arteriovenous malformation ( cerebral AVM , CAVM , cAVM ) is a rare connection between the arteries and veins in the brain . It is an arteriovenous malformation in the cerebrum .
In serious cases, the blood vessels rupture and there is bleeding within the brain ( intracranial hemorrhage ). Nevertheless, in more than half of patients with AVM, hemorrhage is the first symptom. [1]
The most problems related to an AVM, are headaches and seizures , cranial nerve deficits, [2] backaches, neckaches and eventual nausea.

A cerebral infarction is an area of necrotic tissue in the brain caused from a blockage or narrowing in the arteries supplying blood and oxygen to the brain.
The lack of oxygen due to the low blood supply causes an ischemic stroke that can result in an infarction if the blood flow is not restored within a relatively short period of time. The blockage can be due to a thrombus , an embolus or an atheromatous stenosis of one or more arteries . [1]
Which arteries are problematic will determine which areas of the brain are affected (infarcted). These varying infarcts will produce different symptoms and outcomes. About one third will prove fatal.

Cerebrovascular disease , stroke or cerebrovascular accident, [1] is a vascular disease of the cerebral circulation . Arteries supplying oxygen to the brain are affected resulting in one of a number of cerebrovascular diseases. Most commonly this is a stroke or mini-stroke and sometimes can be a hemorrhagic stroke . Any of these can result in vascular dementia . [2]
Causes of cerebrovascular disease can be divided into: atherosclerosis , embolism , aneurysms , low flow states, and other rare causes. [3] Major modifiable risk factors include: [4]
Treatment for cerebrovascular disease includes medication , lifestyle changes and surgery . [5]
Examples of medications are:
Surgical procedures include:
A Cesarean section (often called a C-section ) [1] is a kind of surgery , which is usually done to make childbirth easier. In the past, this was done when there was a great risk to the health of the mother, or when normal childbirth through the vagina was not possible. More recently, it has also been done on request, without these reasons. In very rare cases, abortions are performed using this procedure, these are called Hysterotomy abortions . The first person to perform a modern Cesarean section was Ferdinand Adolf Kehrer , in 1881. In Latin , it is called Sectio caesarea , in English, the spelling Caesarean section also exists.
The rate of babies delivered through Cesarean section varies: It is at a record level of 46% in China; levels of 25% and above are common in many Asian and European countries, Latin America, and the United States. [2]
From about the 6th century, there  was Roman law that stated that a living foetus may not be buried with the mother, The Digest notes this to be a "lex regia". If this were the case, it would date from the time around 700 BC, when there were Roman kings.
A chemical burn is an uncomfortable sensation caused by the destruction of body tissue. It is destroyed by various chemicals. For example, concentrated sulfuric acid makes very bad chemical burns. [1] Hydrochloric acid makes milder burns. [2] There are several ways to protect against chemical burns, such as wearing gloves and a lab apron when working with chemicals. Each chemical has its own way to remove it from the skin, but normally drenching the burn with water should help.


Chiropractic is a form of alternative medicine . A chiropractor is a person who went to school to learn chiropractic. Chiropractors may diagnose and treat many conditions relating to muscles , joints , and nerves of the body . They may give what is called an "adjustment" to the body. An adjustment is a fast short push to an area of the patient 's spine or other joints to help their condition. Chiropractors do not use drugs to treat patients. They use natural treatments such as nutrition , exercise , physical therapy , adjustments, and massage in order to help their patients.
Chiropractic has changed since it was created over 100 years ago because chiropractors learn new facts and do new research . Chiropractors have many different ways to treat their patients. They all use drug free treatments. Chiropractic is best known for helping people with spine pain , but chiropractors can also help other problems. There has been a debate as to whether or not chiropractic is classified as Pseudoscience .

Chlorpromazine is an antipsychotic drug . It is the oldest such drug. It was developed in 1950. It is typically used to treat Schizophrenia . It has also been used to treat bipolar disorder . It has been shown to help uncontrollable hiccups disappear. It is also used to help with nausea and vomiting .

The choking game is a challenge that aims to cause unconsciousness by lowering the supply of oxygen to the brain . When becoming conscious again ("waking up"), people often have a euphoric feeling , or a good dream. Most of the time, adolescents try this game. One of the reasons is that they want to experiment with other states of consciousness. If they do it as a group, peer pressure often plays a role. The practice seems to have started in France, in the early 20th century. After the second world war (late 1940s, to early 1950s), several authors described it.
The reasons to play this game are different from those of erotic asphyxiation . Steve Field, chairman of the Royal College of General Practitioners in London, [1] claims that children and teens try the game mainly "to get a high without taking drugs." Children "aren't playing this game for sexual gratification."  It is frequently confused with erotic asphyxiation, which is oxygen deprivation for sexual arousal .  Unlike erotic asphyxiation, adults usually don't play this game. [2] [3]
The brain will take permanent damage, if it doesn't get enough oxygen.  The first effects occur within minutes.
In the United States , and in France , where it is known as "jeu de foulard", this practice has caused several deaths. The CDC has identified 82 victims aged between 6 and 19 years, who died as a result of this practice, between 1995 and 2007. [4]
Most of the sensations felt are:
Chordoma is a slow growing, very rare kind of cancerous tumor .
Chorea (sometimes called Choreia ) is the name for a set of symptoms caused by some neurological conditions . The word "chorea" comes from Greek , where it means " dance ". People with chorea move without being able to control those movements. The movements seem to spread from one muscle to the next.
Chorea is one of the main symptoms of Huntington's disease .
Some forms of chorea are not linked to neurological conditions, though. Chorea can develop as a complication of pregnancy .  It can be a sign of hyperthyroidism . It can also be caused by drugs taken in the wrong dose. For example, L-Dopa (taken against Parkinson's disease ), certain forms of birth control , or certain antipsychotics can cause chorea if they are used in the wrong doses.
In medicine a chronic disease or condition is one that takes a long time to heal (or go away), or one that comes again.  Many chronic diseases require special treatment, as this has to be done for a long time. A chronic disease can even last for a lifetime.

Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy ( CIDP ) is an immune-mediated inflammatory disorder of the peripheral nervous system . The disorder is sometimes called chronic relapsing polyneuropathy (CRP) or chronic inflammatory demyelinating poly radiculo neuropathy (because it involves the nerve roots).
CIDP is closely related to Guillain–Barré syndrome and it is thought to be the chronic counterpart of that acute disease. [1] Its symptoms are also similar to progressive inflammatory neuropathy .
Several variants have been reported. Specially important are:
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell ). [1] [2]
Early on there are typically no symptoms. [1] Later non-painful lymph node swelling, feeling tired, fever , night sweats , or weight loss for no clear reason may occur. [1]
Risk factors include having a family history of the disease.
Cirrhosis is a disease of the liver .  Normal liver tissue is replaced by scar tissue . The liver does not work so well.
Cirrhosis is caused mostly by alcoholism , hepatitis B or hepatitis C . Ascites (retention of fluid in the abdomen ) is the most common complication for cirrhosis. The patient's skin develops a yellowish hue ( jaundice ) as the disease gets worse. Liver damage by cirrhosis cannot be repaired. It leads to a poor quality of life, and can cause death.

Citalopram (better known as Celexa ) is an antidepressant used to treat major depression and off-label conditions. This medicine was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in the 1990s. Adverse affects from this medicine include although are not limited to drowsiness, nausea , vivid dreaming, dry mouth and trembling. Citalopram is also used for anxiety conditions and panic disorder .
Clear-cell sarcoma is a rare form of cancer called sarcoma . [1] It is known to happen mainly in the soft tissues and dermis.
Recurrence is common. [2]
Clear cell sarcoma of the soft tissues in adults is not related to the pediatric tumor known as clear cell sarcoma of the kidney . [3]
A clinical thermometer is a thermometer used to measure human body temperature . Most made in the 20th century are mercury-in-glass thermometer s. They are accurate and sensitive, having a narrow place where the mercury level rises very fast. A kink in the tube stops the mercury level from falling on it own.
These thermometers are used in clinics by doctors,  it is a clinical thermometers they are also called a doctor's thermometers or medical thermometers.  Most show both Celsius scale and Fahrenheit temperature scales, and run from 35 degree Celsius to 42 degree Celsius.
Medical thermometers are cleaned before and after each use, with alcohol .
For centuries medical thermometers were large, and took many minutes to register a temperature.  In the 1860s smaller, better ones were made, and thus thermometers were more often used.  An ear thermometer was invented in the 1960s, which works quickly and easily.  Digital thermometers became widespread in the late 20th century.
Clonazepam is an anticonvulsant . This means it can be used to stop seizures . It is also used to lessen states of fear . It is an anxiolytic . It is a benzodiazepine . Benzodiazepines are very addictive . Clonazepam is used to treat certain forms of epilepsy . It is also used to treat certain disorders of sleep, such as sleepwalking . In certain cases it is used as an off-label drug in psychiatry . It is also used for panic disorders .
Clonus is the name for involuntary rhythmic contractions of muscles or muscle groups. The term is from the Greek for "violent, confused motion".  Cloni can happen as a sign of certain neurological conditions , such as epilepsy , stroke , and multiple sclerosis . They can also be a sign that the spinal cord was damaged. Cloni can also occur as a reaction to certain drugs .
Clostridioides difficile infection ( CDI or C-diff ), also known as Clostridium difficile infection , is a symptomatic infection caused by the spore -forming bacterium Clostridioides difficile . [1] Symptoms include watery diarrhea , fever, nausea, and abdominal pain .
It makes up about 20% of cases of antibiotic-associated diarrhea . Problems caused by this infection are pseudomembranous colitis , toxic megacolon , perforation of the colon , and sepsis .
Clostridioides difficile infection is spread by bacterial spores found within feces .
Colic is a form of pain that starts and stops quickly and out of nowhere. It happens because muscular contractions of a hollow tube (colon, gall bladder , ureter , etc.). This is done to remove an obstruction by forcing content out. It may cause sweating and vomiting . [1]
Coma is a medical term. It is a state of deep unconsciousness . People who are in that state cannot be woken up. They also do not react to pain or light . Coma can result from various conditions . Some of these are intoxication , poisons , damages or diseases of the nervous system . It can also be the result of certain drugs . Doctors sometimes put patients that have very bad injuries into a coma. There are different levels of coma. Comas usually do not last more than several weeks, but those several weeks could be disastrous . Sometimes only basic bodily functions are left over. Intensive hospital care is often needed to recover some of these functions.
Some comas can last years, but these are usually not woken up from. The family of a coma victim (or whoever has the power of Attorney ) can sign papers so that they are taken off of life support and then will die .

In medicine the term comorbidity is used to describe diseases and conditions that often occur together with another disease or condition. The first disease or disorder is called primary . In many cases, the primary condition or disease does not cause the comorbid disorders. However, they may both be caused or partly caused by the same thing, for example a genetic mutation or a traumatic experience.
As an example, a patient may have antisocial personality disorder and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder . The two conditions are comorbid . Another patient might suffer from borderline personality disorder , posttraumatic stress disorder and bipolar disorder . The three conditions are comorbid .
In medicine , people talk about complications if a disease or condition a patient has gets worse. This makes it more difficult (or more complicated, that is where the word is from) to treat.

Compulsory sterilization is a term used for laws that force certain groups of people to be sterilized so that they can no longer make babies . International Criminal Court considers compulsory sterilization for a " crime against humanity". Transgender persons are often obliged to undergo sterilization for legal rocognition of legal status depite the Principle 3 of the Yogyakarta Principles .
Such laws were mainly introduced because of Eugenic views of the start of the 20th century . Today, most compulsory sterilizations are done to mentally ill people who are not able to handle a pregnancy on their own. [1] In China , compulsory sterilization is part of family planning .

In the United Kingdom , certain drugs are classified as controlled drugs . Controlled drugs are illegal to possess, use, or supply to others without a license . These drugs are governed under the Misuse of Drugs Act of 1971. This act defines three categories of controlled drugs: A , B , and C . The penalties for illegaly possessing, using or supplying a controlled drug are different depending on which category the drug belongs to. Many of these drugs are also governed by other laws, such as the Medicines Act . Also, there are many other drugs that are not controlled by the Misuse of Drugs Act but that are controlled by other laws.
Class A drugs are drugs that are considered the most dangerous. They carry the harshest punishments . Class C drugs are those that are thought to be much less dangerous. They therefore carry much less serious punishments. More serious punishments are dealt if the person is considered to have had the intention to supply the drug to others. Possession with intent to supply carries a maximum penalty of life in prison .
The laws governing the use and supply of drugs for medical purposes are not part of the Misuse of Drugs Act. A different set of categories apply, which are defined in the Misuse of Drugs Regulations. This sets out five schedules, each with their own restrictions. These restrictions say that a person can possess and use certain drugs if they have the proper prescriptions for them. A prescriptions must be given by somebody who is licensed to provide it (e.g., a medical doctor ). The drug [1] itself must be supplied by somebody who is licensed to supply it (e.g., a pharmacy ).

Coronary artery bypass surgery is a type of surgery that relieves chest pain , caused by lack of blood flow , and reduces the risk of death from heart disease . It is also known as coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG , pronounced "cabbage") surgery, and known by doctors as heart bypass or bypass surgery . In this surgery, blood vessels from elsewhere in the patient's body are added to the heart vessels to go around blood vessels blocked by fat and get more blood into the heart so it can keep running. This surgery usually happens with the heart stopped, which makes machines that act as lungs and heart needed. However, it is possible to have the surgery with the heart still pumping, called "off-pump" surgery.

COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access , abbreviated as COVAX , is a global program that helps give COVID-19 vaccines to people living in poor countries led by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance ,  the World Health Organization (WHO), the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), and others. [1]
By 15 July 2020, 165 countries – representing 60% of the human population – had joined COVAX. [2]
Covonia is a brand of medicine for treating coughs and other chest infections . Covonia is owned by PL Holder and made by Thornton & Ross Ltd .

Cow urine (गोमूत्र "Gomutra" in Hindi) is used as medicine mainly in India where cows are considered as holy by Hindus . [1] In addition cow urine is consumed as a drink by people believing it to boost the immunity. [2] Cow urine is one of the five contents of Panchagavya meaning five products obtained from a cow ( urine , milk , ghee , curd and dung ). Cow urine is also used in folk medicine in Myanmar , Nepal and Nigeria . [3]
From ancient times it is used in Ayurveda medicine to treat leprosy , fever , peptic ulcers , liver diseases , kidney diseases , asthma , psoriasis , cancer and for weight loss in obesity . [4] [5] [6]
Cow urine is used in organic farming as a fertilizer and to protect crops from fungal infections. [7]
In addition cow urine is used as a floor cleaner and to manufacture cosmetic products like skin creams , bathing liquids and soap . [8] [9] [10]

The cremaster muscle is a muscle that covers the testis and the spermatic cord .
The word comes from the transitive Greek verb "I hang" ( Greek : κρεμάννυμι ). [1]

Cryotherapy is using a freezing chamber (usually -110 degrees) to help muscles recover. Cyrotherapy is said to multiple applications. The word "Cryo" comes from Greek language, which means icy or cold. Cryotherapy is a procedure that exposes the body to temperatures colder than -200 degrees for about 3 minutes. [1] The practice is said to have originated in Japan in late 1970s when a Japanese rheumatologist used cold temperatures to treat his patients painful joints. [2] Cryotherapy is also used to treat cancer, wherein, extreme coldtemperatures destroy cancer cells. [3]
The Curie Institute or Institut Curie is one of the leading medical research centres in the world. 
It is a private non-profit foundation for research into cancer . It is located in Paris , France . [1]
It was founded by Marie Curie and got state approval as a foundation in 1921.
There are several hundred research staff at the Institute. Institut Curie does not offer undergrduate degrees, but does award Ph.D.s.
Institut Curie runs the Hôpital Claudius Régaud , a cancer treatment hospital.
Five Nobel prizes are attached to the Institute's researchers.
Cyclophosphamide is a drug used in the treatment of lymphoma, some types of leukemia , and some solid cancers, as well as for some forms of Nephritis , Rheumatoid arthritis , and multiple sclerosis .

Cyclothymia is a mental illness characterized by mood swings - a mood disorder . The disease is a milder version of bipolar disorder . The mood swings are usually less extreme. Mood swings can be spontaneous, or triggered by an event.
Cyclothymia is also an old name for bipolar disorder.
A cyst is a closed sac, having a distinct membrane and division compared with the nearby tissue .
It is a cluster of cells that has grouped together to form a sac however an aspect of a cyst is that the cells forming the "shell" of such a sac are distinctly abnormal when compared with all surrounding cells for that given location.
It may contain air, fluids, or semi-solid material. A collection of pus is called an abscess , not a cyst. Once formed, sometimes a cyst may resolve on its own. When a cyst fails to resolve, it may need to be removed surgically, but that would depend upon its type and location.
Cysticercosis is a tissue infection caused by the young form of the pork tapeworm . [1] [2] People may have few or no symptoms for years.
In some cases, particularly in Asia, solid lumps of between one and two centimetres may develop under the skin. [2] After months or years these lumps can become painful and swollen and then be cured. [3]
Dacarbizine is a type of drug used to fight cancer .  It works by changing DNA , which makes cancer cells grow more slowly or completely stop growing. [1] It is used against metastatic melanoma . [1] Only about 15.3% of people who use the drug respond to it. [1] People who use this drug do not live any longer as a result. [1]
It has side effects , including less blood cells , damage to the liver .  I can also sometimes make other types of cancer start growing. [1]
A date rape drug is a drug that is used to make a person unable to consent to sex . This makes that person likely to be a victim of rape or sexual assault . [1]
Date rape drugs include GHB , Rohypnol , alcohol and MDMA . Another is methaqualone, also known as Quaalude.

Death by natural causes is often recorded on death records as the cause of a person's death . Death from natural causes might be a heart attack , stroke , cancer, infection, or any other illness .
By contrast, death caused by active intervention is known as unnatural death . The "unnatural" causes are usually given as accident (implying no unreasonable voluntary risk), misadventure (accident following a willful and dangerous risk, which can include drug or alcohol overdose), suicide, or homicide . [1] In some settings, other categories may be added.  For example, a prison may track the deaths of inmates caused by acute intoxication separately. [2] Additionally, a cause of death can be recorded as "undetermined". [3]
A decongestant (or nasal decongestant ) is a type of pharmaceutical drug that is used to help stop nasal congestion in the upper respiratory tract . The active ingredients that most decongestants have are pseudoephedrine or phenylephrine .

Defibrillation is the act of defibrillating the heart to treat the heart when it is not pushing blood because the heart muscle is not working in any pattern. Electricity causes a muscle to contract, this is how nerves cause muscles to work. The heart is a large muscle, and certain parts need to contract before other parts in order to push blood through the heart and out to the rest of body correctly. Sometimes the heart muscle doesn't contract in the correct way or at the correct speed, this is called an arrhythmia (out of rhythm). Fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia when the whole heart is quivering, not organized to make heart beats of any kind. [1] CPR ( Cardiopulmonary resuscitation ) can get blood to the body when the heart is fibrillating, but the heart still needs to be restarted. Sometimes CPR will do that as well, but often a defibrillator is needed. Defibrillation is done with a defibrillator.
Defibrillation works by carefully sending a strong electric current to the heart, which resets the heart, and hopefully returns a normal, coordinated heart rhythm. It needs to depolarise (take away the existing electric charge) from a large part of the heart muscle, which stops the arrhythmia and allows the normal heartbeat to return. Defibrillators can work outside the body with the use of an external defibrillator or an automated external defibrillator , or inside the body with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator .
The first use of the technique on a human was in 1947 by Claude Beck, a professor of surgery at Case Western Reserve University. The patient was a 14-year-old boy named Mickey. [2]
Defibrillation is now used during open heart surgery, when the heart is stopped on purpose. In1980 the first implanted defibrillator was put into a patient. Implanted defibrillators are put into the chests of people at risk of going into fibrillation. [3]
Not all arrhythmias need defibrillation. Some arrhythmias still push blood to the body, not well, but still enough to keep a person alive. Other types, like ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia , will cause a person to die within minutes unless treated. These are what need to be treated by defibrillation.
Degenerative disease is the result of a continuous process based on degenerative cell changes, affecting tissues or organs , which will increasingly deteriorate over time. [1]
In neurodegenerative diseases cells of the central nervous system stop working or die via neurodegeneration . An example of this is Alzheimer's disease . [2]
A delusion is a false belief held by a person. If doctors talk about delusions they mean that the false belief is the result of some disease , usually a disease of the mind , such as paranoia , schizophrenia or bipolar disorder , but not always neccesarily,  delusions can come in many different forms such as political differences, economic differences such as a god complex upheld by someone who believes they are all powerful and many other types.
Delusions also have other properties, according to Karl Jaspers : [1]
Studies on psychiatric patients show that delusions vary in intensity and conviction over time, which suggests that certainty and incorrigibility are not necessary components of a delusional belief. [2]
Delusions do not necessarily have to be false or 'incorrect inferences about external reality'. [3] Some religious or spiritual beliefs by their nature may not be falsifiable, and hence cannot be described as false or incorrect, no matter whether the person holding these beliefs was diagnosed as delusional or not. [4]
A doctor or psychiatrist may say that a delusion is false, because it seems to be unlikely or bizarre.Psychiatrists rarely have the time or resources to check the validity of a person’s claims; this means that some true beliefs are erroneously classified as delusional. [5] This is known as the Martha Mitchell effect , after the wife of the attorney general who alleged that illegal activity was taking place in the White House . At the time her claims were thought to be signs of mental illness. Only after the Watergate scandal was she proved right, and sane.
Dental braces are wires that are held together by brackets glued to the permanent teeth . The wires and brackets may be made of metal or other materials. Each week or month (or other time the orthodontist decides) the braces may be checked, cleaned, or changed into a tighter wire.
Braces are an orthodontic device. They are to make the teeth straight, and to correct problems in a person's bite. There are many natural problems which occur to the way teeth fit together, but not everyone needs or will need braces.
However, the use of braces is quite common, even when they are not medically necessary. Their cosmetic use for young females is more common in countries with first world economies . To overcome the visibility of traditional metal braces, there are now nearly transparent braces. Sometimes braces are possible behind the teeth, and so are not in view. [1]

Dentistry is a specialty in medicine , which is practiced by a dentist. Dentists find out what's wrong, fix, and help prevent problems with teeth . A dentist has other people that help him with their job. Dental hygienists help people keep their teeth clean. A dental assistant helps the dentist when they are treating a patient. Dental surgeons will perform surgery to fix large or dangerous problems with people's teeth. There are also dentists called orthodontists , who can move people's teeth using braces . Dental surgeons and orthodontists are called specialists. [1]

Dentures (also known as false teeth ) are meant to solve dental problems of humans . They should not be worn overnight. [1] Famous people who wore them for years include George Washington . [2] The history goes back as early as 7th century BC . [3]

A dependent personality disorder (DPD) is a personality disorder that involves a psychological dependence on other people. This personality disorder is a long-term ( chronic ) condition in which people depend on others to meet their emotional and physical needs. Only a small percentage of people with dependent personality disorders are eventually able to manage on their own.

Depressants are a group of drugs that depress or slow down the activity of certain areas of the brain .  Functionally, depressants counter the effects of stimulants , which increase brain activity. Drugs of the depressant type are widely used around the world, as prescription drugs.  They can help with the following:
Among the big groups of depressants are:
Derealization ( DR ) is a change in the way someone views the world so that it seems unreal. Derealization can also make someone feel as if their environment does not have emotion or depth. This is a symptom of other problems, such as sleeping disorders , schizophrenia , and other mental disorders . It can also be caused by drug intoxication .
Similar to derealization is depersonalization , but the two are different. Depersonalization is a sense of unreality about oneself. Derealization is a sense of unreality of the outside world.
Derealization often happens during a traumatic or tragic event.

Dermatology is a branch of medicine that deals with skin , hair, sweat glands, etc.
Dermatologists are doctors who diagnose and treat diseases and tumors of the skin, hair, and sweat glands.

Detoxification is when any toxic thing is removed from the human body, for example alcohol or poison. [1] A healthy lifestyle along with regular exercise can help you to remove toxins from the body. [ source? ]
Dextromethorphan ( DXM or DM ) is a drug . It is used to prevent coughs in many over-the-counter cold and cough medicines. Dextromethorphan can also be used for pain relief or for psychological conditions. It is sold in syrup , tablet , and lozenge forms, manufactured under several different brand names and generic labels. In its pure form, dextromethorphan is a white powder.
If more is taken than directed, dextromethorphan acts as a dissociative hallucinogenic drug. Its mechanism of action (how it works) is as an NMDA receptor antagonist (blocks a chemical in the brain), producing  effects similar to those of the controlled substances ketamine and phencyclidine (PCP). [1]

The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM )  is a guide to grouping mental disorders . It is published by the American Psychiatric Association . It is used in the United States and around the world by doctors , researchers, health insurance companies, companies which make medicine, and others.
There have been five revisions since it was first published in 1952. Each time, more mental disorders were added, although some have been removed and are no longer seen as mental disorders. An example of this is homosexuality.
The manual was developed from systems for collecting census and psychiatric hospital statistics , and from a manual written by the US Army . A lot of changes were made to it in 1980. The last time it was greatly changed was the fourth edition ("' DSM-IV' "), published in 1994, but small changes to text were made in a 2000 version. The fifth edition ("DSM-5") was published May 2013.
The DSM has been criticized for being too influenced by the drug industry.
The International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems , ICD, has a section about mental and behavioral disorders which is different from the DSM. The ICD, not the DSM, is the system used by the United States government. [1]
Dialectical behavior therapy ( DBT ) is a form of psychotherapy developed by Marsha M. Linehan , a psychology researcher at the University of Washington . Linehan originally developed DBT to help people with borderline personality disorder (BPD). [1] [2]
DBT uses cognitive-behavioral techniques to get patients to control their emotions and test what reality is. It also tests the patient's tolerance for distress , and tries to get them to accept their situation and be aware of their feelings . [3]
Linehan's ideas about how to be aware of your feelings come from Buddhist meditation . DBT may be the first therapy that has been shown to be effective in treating BPD. [4] [5] [6] It can also help patients with spectrum mood problems, including self-injury . [7] DBT may help victims of sexual abuse and people addicted to drugs . [8] [9]
In the early 1990’s, Dr. Marsha Linehan developed an alternative therapy to treat her borderline personality disorder patients. Instead of having a one-way conversation with the patient, the therapist would engage him through the use of real world examples to elicit the desired responses. One by one, Linehan was able to teach her patients how to react differently in a variety of situations. This process removes the obstacles to treatment that had confused therapists treating suicidal patients. In a recent study, DBT has proven especially effective in reducing self-injurious behavior, suicide attempts and inpatient treatment days.
DBT has also been used to treat alcohol addiction [10] and drug addiction.
Diazepam is a benzodiazepine which has a relatively long half-life . It is mostly used to treat anxiety , certain  forms of epilepsy , muscle spasms (where the muscle moves on its own, causing pain), and sleeping problems . Like with other benzodiazepines, there is a risk of addiction if used for long periods of this. For this reason the drug is used to treat acute cases (2-4 weeks maximum) to avoid dependence. According to the World Health Organization diazepam is an essential drug .
Diazepam is marketed under a number of names; its original trade name was Valium . It has been the most prescribed medicine in the United States many times. It is sometimes used recreationally to cause a calming effect.

Diclofenac is a non-steroidal ant-inflammatory drug . [1] It can be used as an analgesic and antipyretic. It is often used to treat bruises and strain injuiries. [2] Research experiments conducted in 2013, showed that Diclofenac increased the risk of heart attacks and stroke. [3]
A dietitian or dietician is an expert in food and nutrition .
Dietitians help promote good health through proper eating. They often write custom diets for people.
In a medical setting they can give food supplements for those people who cannot get what they need because of swallowing problems.
Dietitians want to find, cook and serve tasty, attractive and healthy food to patients, their families and healthcare providers. [1]
In many countries only people with specific degrees or certifications can call themselves dietitians. 
The term nutritionist is widely used as it is not controlled like the title dietitian, but the word nutritionist can be used without having the qualifications of registered dietitians.
A nutritionist is not a dietitian as he is not registered to a national board and does not have the same qualifications. [2] Dietitians are important in the medical multidisciplinary team because they are experts in nutrition and can give advice to doctors , nurses , and other health care workers. [3] Dietitians supervise the preparation and service of food, help in research, and teach people on how to eat well.

Dilation and Curettage (D&C) is a type of surgery used to diagnose and treat problems with woman's uterus .
During a D&C, a doctor will do these things: [1]
A D&C can be used for many reasons.  For example: [1]

A disability is a condition that a person has which limits them in some way.
People with a disability or disabilities may need to use special equipment that can help them. This can include using a wheelchair , a cane or walking stick, hearing aids , a teletypewriter (TTY) and using specially designed software and hardware for the personal computer .
People who use a wheelchair or cane/walking stick cannot walk up or down stairs in a building. They need to use ramps and elevators when going into and moving around in a building. Wide doorways and accessible toilets also make it easier for people with physical disabilities to use.
Prejudice towards people with disabilities is common. This is sometimes called ' ableism ' or anapirism. People with such a prejudice are called an ablecentrists , handicapists, anapirophobes, able-bodyists, disablists or anapirists. [1]
The Diseases Database is a database on a free website that gives information about the relationships between medical conditions, symptoms , and medications . The database is run by Medical Object Oriented Software Enterprises Ltd, a small company based in London , UK .
The site's stated aim is "education, background reading and general interest" with an intended audience "physicians, other clinical healthcare workers and students of these professions". The editor of the site is stated as Malcolm H Duncan, a UK qualified medical doctor. [1]
The Diseases Database is based around a collection of concepts related to human medicine. These concepts include diseases, drugs, symptoms, physical signs and abnormal laboratory results. These are referred to as 'items'.
There are around 8,000 items within the database. [2]

In medicine , distress is a situation when a person is unable to completely adapt to stress . As a result, the person shows a set of behaviours which are not adapted to the situation. Very often, the person is aware of the situation, and feels bad about not being able to fully adapt.
People often find ways of dealing with distress, in both negative and positive ways. Examples of positive ways are listening to music, calming exercises, sports and similar healthy distractions. Negative ways can include but are not limited to use of drugs including alcohol, and expression of anger, which are likely to lead to complicated social interactions, thus causing increased distress.
A diuretic is a chemical substance. This substance is either in a herb (such as dandelions), or it has been separated and made into a drug . Diuretics increase the amount of urine that is secreted from the body. Diuretics are used as a treatment for heart failure , liver cirrhosis , hypertension and certain problems with the kidneys . Diuretics are often abused by people suffering form bulimia nervosa as a way to lose weight.
Well-known substances that have diuretic properties are tea , coffee and alcohol .


Doctors Without Borders or Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) is a non profitable international medical humanitarian organization created by doctors and journalists in France in 1971. [1] MSF gives emergency aid to people affected by wars , epidemics , famine , natural disasters and man-made disasters, or areas where there is no health care available. It provides this help to all people, regardless of their race, religion or political beliefs.
In 1999 Doctors Without Borders was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize . [2] On 7 October 2015, President Barack Obama , also Nobel Peace Prize winner and at that time commander in chief , issued an apology to Doctors Without Borders for Kunduz hospital airstrike . [3]
Dunant / Passy (1901) · Ducommun / Gobat (1902) · Cremer (1903) · IDI (1904) · Suttner (1905) · Roosevelt (1906) · Moneta / Renault (1907) · Arnoldson / Bajer (1908) · Beernaert / Estournelles de Constant (1909) · IPB (1910) · Asser / Fried (1911) · Root (1912) · La Fontaine (1913) · International Committee of the Red Cross (1917) · Wilson (1919) · Bourgeois (1920) · Branting / Lange (1921) · Nansen (1922) · Chamberlain / Dawes (1925)
Briand / Stresemann (1926) · Buisson / Quidde (1927) · Kellogg (1929) · Söderblom (1930) · Addams / Butler (1931) · Angell (1933) · Henderson (1934) · Ossietzky (1935) · Lamas (1936) · Cecil (1937) · Nansen Office (1938) · International Committee of the Red Cross (1944) · Hull (1945) · Balch / Mott (1946) · QPSW / AFSC (1947) · Boyd Orr (1949) · Bunche (1950)
In sport , doping is the use of a drug that athletes or competitors are not allowed to use. Certain drugs, such as steroids , are not allowed (or banned ) in professional sports. This is because they can help a competitor's performance, by making them stronger or faster. This gives them an unfair advantage over other competitors. The drugs may be legal, but competitors will not be allowed to use them. Many sports make competitors take a drug test to prove that they are not using any drugs.



Dorlands Illustrated Medical Dictionary is a medical dictionary edited by William Alexander Newman Dorland, and first printed in 1890. The word Dorland's is now the brand name for a family of more than 20 medical books available in various media (including printed books, CD-ROMs , and online content). The main books are Dorland's Illustrated Medical Dictionary (now in its 32nd edition) and Dorland's Pocket Medical Dictionary (now in its 28th edition). Dorland's Medical Dictionary was first published in 1890 as the American Illustrated Medical Dictionary , including 770 pages. The pocket edition, called the American Pocket Medical Dictionary , was first published in 1898, with just over 500 pages.
After Dorland died in 1956, the dictionaries were retitled to include his name, which was how they had generally come to be known.  The illustrated dictionary has grown to 2208 pages for the 31st edition.
Drug withdrawal is the group of symptoms that occur upon the fast discontinuation or decrease in intake of medications or recreational drugs . [1]
In order to experience the symptoms of withdrawal, one must have first developed a form of drug addiction , which may occur as physical dependence , psychological dependence , or both. [2]
Anger : Because many marijuana users smoke as a means of escaping from difficult emotions, they don’t know how to regulate those emotions naturally.  The anger during withdrawal can range from a steady, mild stream of rage to a sudden and volatile outburst.  These can stem from feelings of anxiety and a general lack of emotional control during the first few days of withdrawing, which results in swaying back and forth between anger and euphoria.  However, these unbalanced emotions often regulate themselves naturally within three months.
Insomnia : One of the most commonly reported symptoms associated with marijuana withdrawal is insomnia. This can range from a handful of consecutive sleepless nights to occasional sleepless nights over the course of several months.
Nightmares : Nightmares and other forms of vivid dreams are also common in the later stages of withdrawal. They typically start about a week after last use and last anywhere from a week to a month. [3]
Duchenne muscular dystrophy ( DMD ) is a severe type of muscular dystrophy . The symptom of muscle weakness usually begins around the age of four in boys and worsens quickly. Most are unable to walk by the age of 12. Scoliosis is also common.
The disorder is X-linked recessive . About two thirds of cases are inherited from a person's mother , while one third of cases are due to a new mutation . It is caused by a mutation in the gene for the protein dystrophin .
Although there is no known cure, physical therapy , braces , and corrective surgery may help with some symptoms. [1]
Dysautonomia or autonomic dysfunction is a condition in which the autonomic nervous system (ANS) does not work properly. This may affect the heart , bladder , intestines , sweat glands , pupils , and blood vessels. Dysautonomia has many causes and may not be neuropathic . [1]
Dystonia is a neurological movement disorder syndrome in which it had repetitive muscle contractions result in twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal positions. [1] The movements may look like tremors . Dystonia is often intensified  or exacerbated by physical activity, and symptoms may progress into adjacent muscles. [2]
Electroconvulsive therapy ( ECT ), also called electroshock , is a psychiatric treatment in which seizures are caused by electricity in unconscious patients to treat llness.
The process is completed by placing electrodes on the sides of the patient's head (on either both or just one side) and sending a small electric current through the brain. This lasts for about half a second.
The patient is also made unconscious before the treatment for safety reasons. The therapy without informed consent is medical abuse and Article 18 of the Yogyakarta Principles prohibit to "care" any sexual orientation and gender identity though any therapy including this.

Electrology is an electrical process to remove human hair so that it does not grow back. An electrologist is sometimes called an electrolysist in the United Kingdom . The process of removing the hair is referred to as electrolysis. The electrolysist slides a thin metal probe into each hair follicle . This, if done the right way, does not hurt the skin. Electricity flows to the follicle through the probe. This causes damage to the areas that grow hair so that it does not grow back.
Eli Lilly and Company is an American global medication company. Its headquarters are in Indianapolis , Indiana . The products of the company are sold in about 125 countries. The company was founded in 1876. It was named after Colonel Eli Lilly, a pharmaceutical chemist and American Civil War veteran.
Eli Lilly's most important products before World War II included diabetic insulin . One of the brand names they used for the insulin was Iletin.  In 2002, Eli Lilly made more products for people with diabetes than any other company.
Eli Lilly is the largest manufacturer and distributor of medications used for mental health issues. They make medications for bipolar disorder , clinical depression, generalized anxiety and others. One drug in this class is Amytal. It is used mainly to help with sleep and anxiety.
An Elizabethan collar , also called a, e-collar , lampshade or cone of shame is a piece of equipment used in veterinary medicine . [1] They stop the animal from licking or biting its body and from scratching or touching its head with its feet. [2]
The veterinarian places the collar around the neck of an injured animal so that it cannot bite or lick the injured part of its body.  For example, a dog with a cut on its skin might need medicine placed directly on the cut. The dog might try to lick the medicine and poison itself.  An animal that has had surgery might try to pull out its stitches .  An animal with a broken leg might bite into its cast and try to pull it off.  If it is wearing an Elizabethan collar, it cannot do this.
Some pet owners say their pets find it difficult to eat, drink and play while wearing an Elizabethan collar. [2] Veterinarians sometimes try other collars, like those made out of cloth, collars that look like inner-tube-shaped cushions, and collars that act more like a neck brace , stopping the animal from moving its head. [3]
Elizabethan collars are named after Elizabethan ruffs , stiff, starched collars that people wore in 1500s England.
Today, most Elizabethan collars are made out of plastic .  In the 1800s, they could be made out of wood or leather. [2]
The emergency department ( ED ) is a part of a hospital for treating people who have just come to the hospital, need to be treated quickly even without an appointment. These people may have been hurt, or they may have suddenly become very ill.
Patients come to an emergency department with little warning. Many come in an ambulance . Emergency departments often have staff working all day and all night, on every day of the week. This is because patients can arrive at any time. To work in those places, doctors and nurses must be trained in emergency medicine .
There are many different names for an emergency department. They are often called an emergency room ( ER ), even if they are bigger than one room. They may also be called an emergency ward ( EW ) or emergency unit . In the United Kingdom and Ireland, they are usually called accident & emergency department ( A&E ) and less often as a casualty department .
A 2005 patient study found an average emergency room wait time from 2 hours in Iowa to more than 5 hours in Arizona . [1] The Midwest had the highest number of emergency room visits (460 per 1,000 people). The West had the lowest number. [2]
An emergency medical dispatcher is a person who answers telephone calls to the emergency medical services and sends out the ambulances . For each call they much decide if an ambulance is needed and which one should be sent. They also help the caller with their problems until the ambulance arrives.
An emergency medical technician ( EMT ) is someone who works on an ambulance and takes care of sick and hurt people. EMTs used to be called "ambulance drivers," since much of their work is bringing people to an emergency room . Their other main duty is first aid including: [1]
In the United States, each state decides what their EMTs can do. EMTs in every state are allowed to perform first aid. Each state has different rules for exactly what their EMTs can do. These rules are called treatment protocols . For example:

An epidemic is a disease that spreads over a large area and affects many people at the same time. Epidemics are when a disease spreads from person to person faster than doctors can control. If the disease spreads over the whole world , sometimes it is called a pandemic .
Such diseases must be treated quickly and properly otherwise they can infect people on large scale and pose a danger to the world. It is very important that timely vaccination and treatment is provided. The study of epidemics is part of epidemiology .
Eradication is the lowering of an infectious disease 's existence in the global host population to zero. [1] It is sometimes confused with elimination, which describes either the reduction of an infectious disease's prevalence in a regional population to zero.
Erotomania is a delusional disorder in which the subject has a delusion that a particular person is deeply in love with them; lack of response is rationalized, and pursuit and harassment may occur.
Escitalopram is an antidepressant medication . It is used as a drug to help treat depression , obsessive-compulsive disorder , social anxiety disorder and other mental illnesses . It is commonly known and sold as Lexapro or Cipralex . [1]
Escitalopram can cause sleeping problems, dry mouth and diarrhea . It can also cause sexual problems. [2] These sexual problems usually disappear after a person stops using the drug. However, in some cases these problems can last for months or years.

Excessive daytime sleepiness (or EDS ) is a medical condition where people often feel sleepy during the day, even though they had enough sleep at night. EDS occurs with many sleep disorders . It is a defining feature of some sleep disorders such as narcolepsy , sleep apnea or Circadian rhythm sleep disorder . EDS is difficult to treat without knowing its causse. There are certain drugs that can help with EDS. In general, many treatments of the underlying disease (which causes the sleepiness) will also take into account EDS. The drugs which can treat EDS are usually stimulants .

Extrapyramidal syndrome is when involuntary muscle movements occur in the face and neck. This may include lip smacking, tongue movements, blinking, and head or finger spasms . The patient may have difficulty moving his arms and legs, and slur their words.
It occurs when dopamine is not correctly regulated by the body. It is usually a reaction to medicines , but is also caused by Parkinson's disease or a head injury .

An eye drop is a type of treatment and medicine for the eye . It is used to stop someones eye from hurting. It may also be used to cure eye infections . [1]
Eye drops are safe for children most of the time. [2] However, using eye drops for too much time can make the eyes turn red or hurt the child. [3] [4] Some eye drops are made for children. [5]
Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing ( EMDR / AIP ) is considered by many therapists as a major form of psychotherapy . Francine Shapiro, Ph.D., noted that recalling or thinking about disturbing events, coupled with eye-motion; audio input or sensory input (touch, smell, taste) could aid unprocessed emotional trauma that are emotionally hurtful or painful to the body. The once painful emotional materials are un-embedded via recall of the event coupled with a sensory input which are 'metabolized' by the person's psyche from a painful and harmful state into a helpful learning experience. This processing has proven useful in helping overcome many traumatic events ranging from rape, family violence, physical or verbal abuse, first-responder shock, chronic pain, combat, hurtful memories; select health issues and unresolved, hurtful life experiences.
EMDR involves the processing of painful emotional events via the recalling of the event...paired with movement of the eyes; the hearing of select sound; tactile contact; gustatory (taste) input as an input into the brains processing. This process helps the client to move-on from the physical or emotional pain they are feeling. EMDR or Adaptive Information Processing (AIP) as it is alternatively named, has been being tested and researched in a large number of organizations since it was first discovered in 1987.
Like all psychological theorems and processes it has it's admiring adherents and strong critics.
The EMDR has training and trainers licensed internationally and over 10,000 psychologists and therapists qualified to practice in the U.S.
TREATMENT DESCRIPTION
A risk factor in medicine is something that causes, or helps to cause, a medical condition. 
For example, smoking or breathing in somebody else's tobacco smoke (called second-hand smoke) is a risk factor for emphysema and lung cancer .
A trigger factor causes the symptoms of a medical condition to begin in a person who already has that medical condition. Example: Smoking or breathing in someone else's smoke can be a trigger factor for asthma. The person already had asthma but the smoke caused an asthma attack. [1]

In medicine , family history means information on medical disorders the direct blood relatives of a patient may have had. Many healthcare professionals look at the information on family medical problems, such as autism , diabetes , mental illness , autoimmune diseases , cancer . [1]
Many medical conditions are carried only by the female line, including X-linked conditions. Others are carried by the male line, including Y-linked conditions.
Fatty liver disease ( FLD ), also known as hepatic steatosis , is a condition where a lot of fat builds up in the liver . Sometimes, there are no or few symptoms. There can be pain in the upper right side of the abdomen . The disease can cause cirrhosis , liver cancer , and esophageal cuts. [1]

Female genital mutilation ( FGM ) is cutting off part or all of the female genitals that are outside of the body.  FGM is also called female genital cutting and female circumcision .  It is done for traditional reasons, as part of a ritual , not for medical reasons.
FGM is most common in 27 African countries, as well as Yemen and Iraqi Kurdistan .  However, it also happens in other countries in Asia , the Middle East and around the world. [5] Usually, FGM is not done by a doctor or in a hospital . [6] It is often done with a razor blade or other sharp instruments, in many cases without anesthesia .
Different ethnic groups do different kinds of FGM. They also do FGM at different ages.  Some groups do FGM when infants are only a few days old.  Others do it when girls reach puberty , or are older.  In about half the countries where FGM happens, most girls have FGM before they are five years old. [4]
FGM can cause serious health problems, like infections , chronic pain , trouble getting pregnant and giving birth , bleeding so bad that it can kill. [7] FGM does not make a person's health better in any way. [8]
Fetal viability is a medical and a legal term. It describes the ability of an unborn child to survive outside the womb . For the first three months of pregnancy , the unborn child is called embryo , after that it is called fetus . Usually, children are born after 40 weeks of pregnancy. Very few children are born before the mother reaches 24 weeks of pregnancy. If they are born alive, very few will survive. About 50 to 70 percent of children born from the 25th week of pregnancy will survive. In the 24th week, the survival chance is 30 to 50 percent. The point at which the child has a 50 percent chance of surviving is called limit of viability .
Fetoscopy is a medical procedure to examine and treat an unborn child. It is only done in specialized hospitals. Because it is difficult to do, it is only done for severe illnesses. The complication that occurs most often is that the baby is born early , or that a miscarriage occurs. This happens in up to 5% of the cases. In many cases, fetoscopy is completented or replaced by medical ultrasound .
First aid kits are used to perform first aid on injured people.
A first aid kit often contains the following items:


The term flat feet (also called a fallen arch ) is a medical condition in which human foot arches are very low or the entire sole of the human foot is touching the ground. Flat feet in children may become regular arches later on. [1] Adults with this condition may have problems involving arch development.
The opposite, less common condition is called high arch .

Fluoxetine hydrochloride is an antidepressant medication . It is used as a drug against various illnesses, like depression , obsessive-compulsive disorder , Panic disorder , and other illnesses. Fluoxetine is a one of a group of antidepressants called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). It is commonly known as Prozac .
There are newer drugs available to treat these conditions. Nevertheless, it remains very popular. Over 23.1 million prescriptions for fluoxetine were filled in the United States in 2006. This makes it the third most prescribed antidepressant. [1]

The Hôpital Foch is a well-known hospital in the Suresnes , close to Paris . It is one of Europe's largest hospitals. It has been created in 1929.
He is partner of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines . [1]



Frontotemporal dementia ( FTD ) is the clinical presentation of frontotemporal lobar degeneration . It is characterized by progressive neuronal loss predominantly involving the frontal or temporal lobes , and typical loss of over 70% of spindle neurons , while other neuron types remain intact. [1]
Second only to Alzheimer's disease (AD) in prevalence, FTD accounts for 20% of young-onset dementia cases. [2]
Common signs and symptoms include significant changes in social and personal behavior, apathy, blunting of emotions, and deficits in both expressive and receptive language.
A fugue state ( dissociative fugue or psychogenic fugue ) [1] is a rare psychiatric disorder . It involves temporary loss of memory ( amnesia ). It usually only lasts a short time (from hours to days), but can last months or longer. In a fugue state, the person not only forgets all about who they are, but may suddenly adopt a new identity . They may leave home and wander , settle in another area with a new name. Fugue occurs to avoid stress and anxiety . After the fugue state comes to an end, the person recovers the memories they lost, but usually forgets all that happened during the fugue.
Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) is a special type of MRI that makes it possible to watch different areas of a person's brain while they do different tasks. [1]
A functional MRI shows the use of oxygen in different brain areas. The Deoxyhemoglobin in blood absorbs a radiowave signal and later emits it (sends it back out). Oxyhemoglobin does not. When an area of the brain is active, the blood flow to that area increases and more oxyhemoglobin is delivered to supply the active cells with oxygen. This means less of the signal is absorbed. An active area of the  brain absorbs and emits less energy than a less active area. This can be seen live as it is happening when different areas of the brain 'light up' on the images as they become less active.
Gam-COVID-Vac ( Russian : Гам-КОВИД-Вак , romanized: Gam-KOVID-Vak ), trade-named Sputnik V , is a COVID-19 vaccine created by the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology , and registered on 11 August 2020 by the Russian Ministry of Health . [1] [2] [3]
Gam-COVID-Vac has been approved for distribution in Russia . [1] [4] [5]
Gangliogliomas are tumors that start from groups of nerve cells (ganglion and glial cells) and grow in the brain . They are usually small and noncancerous, and they do not spread to other parts of the body.
Gangliogliomas are rare tumors. Most gangliogliomas occur in children and young adults.
Seizures , headache , vomiting , fatigue and weakness on one side of the body.

Gastric bypass surgery is a surgery in which the stomach is divided and the gastrointestinal tract is redirected. The surgery is performed on people who have morbid obesity or have type 2 diabetes , high blood pressure or other weight-related health problems.
As with all surgery, problems may occur. Some people could die after having the surgery.
Gastric bypass surgery can be done using methods that make only small incisions (cuts) into the abdomen . It is one of the most difficult surgeries to perform that way. Advantages of using those methods include that patients don't have to stay in the hospital as long, they have less pain, it doesn't take as long to recover, and the scars are smaller. [1]
Gastroenterology is a special type of medicine .  It is about the digestive system . Diseases of the gastrointestinal tract are the focus.  The tract includes the organs from mouth to anus .
Physicians in this type of medicine are called gastroenterologists .
Gastrointestinal bleeding ( GI bleed ), also known as gastrointestinal hemorrhage , is all forms of bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract , from the mouth to the rectum . [1]
When there is significant blood loss over a short time, symptoms may include vomiting red blood , vomiting black blood , bloody stool , or black stool .
Small amounts of bleeding over a long time may cause iron-deficiency anemia resulting in feeling tired or heart-related chest pain . Other symptoms may include abdominal pain , shortness of breath , pale skin , or passing out .
Sometimes in those with small amounts of bleeding no symptoms may be present. [2]
Gastrointestinal cancer refers to malignant conditions of the gastrointestinal tract (GI tract) and accessory organs of digestion , including the esophagus , stomach , biliary system , pancreas , small intestine , large intestine , rectum and anus .
The symptoms relate to the organ affected and can include obstruction (leading to difficulty swallowing or defecating), abnormal bleeding or other associated problems. The diagnosis often requires endoscopy , followed by biopsy of suspicious tissue.
The treatment depends on the location of the tumor, as well as the type of cancer cell and whether it has invaded other tissues or spread elsewhere. These factors also determine the prognosis.
