Medicine is the science that deals with diseases (illnesses) in humans and animals , the best ways to prevent diseases, and the best ways to return to a healthy condition. [1]
People who practice medicine are most often called medical doctors or physicians. Often doctors work closely with nurses and many other types of health care professionals.
Many doctors specialize in one kind of medical work. For example, pediatrics is the medical specialty about the health of children . [2] [3]
In this specialty, the doctor is trained to provide anaesthesia and sedation. [4] This is important for surgeries and certain medical procedures. Anaesthesiologists also provide pre-operative assessments, ensuring the patient is safe during the operation and successfully awakens from anaesthesia after the operation. They assess for medical conditions and suitability for anaesthesia. They screen for risk factors prior to surgery and try to optimize the operative environment for the patient and the surgeon. They are the doctors who give epidurals during labor and delivery, provide spinal blocks, local nerve blocks, and general anaesthesia for procedures. They are the doctors who are especially trained in intubation (putting a tube into the lungs to help a person artificially breathe when the person is paralyzed and asleep during surgery). Hence, due to their skill in intubation, they are often the first line responders for emergencies. They help people who are in distress with their breathing, who have lost their airway or when their airway has become obstructed.
Health is "a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease " according to the World Health Organization (WHO). [1] [2] Physical [ permanent dead link ] is about the body. Mental is about how people think and feel. Social talks about how people live with other people. It is about family , work, school, and friends. [3]
Physical fitness refers to good body health. It is dependent on genetic determinators and also on social, economic and ecological factors. That means, one's genes are partly responsible for one's physical health, but also other circumstances: where you live, how clean or polluted your water and the air around you is and also how good your social and medical system is. It is also the result of regular exercise , proper diet and nutrition , and proper rest for physical recovery . A person who is physically fit will be able to walk or run without getting breathless and they will be able to carry out the activities of everyday living and not need help. How much each person can do will depend on their age and whether they are a man or woman. A physically fit person usually has a normal weight for their height. The relation between their height and weight is called their Body Mass Index . A taller person can be heavier and still be fit. If a person is too heavy or too thin for their height it may affect their health. [3] Better health is central to human happiness and well-being. It also makes an important contribution to economic progress, as healthy populations live longer, are more productive, and save more. Many factors influence health status and a country's ability to provide quality health services for its people. [4]
Mental health refers to a person's emotional and psychological well-being. "A state of emotional and psychological well-being in which an individual is able to use his or her thinking and emotional (feeling) abilities, function in society , and meet the ordinary demands of everyday life."
One way to think about mental health is by looking at how well a person functions. Feeling capable and efficient ; being able to handle normal levels of stress , have good friends and family, and lead an independent life; and being able to "bounce back," or recover from hardships, are all signs of mental health.It’s normal for all of us to feel worried, sad, upset, or have difficult emotions from time-to-time. For most people though, these feelings are only temporary and are resolved without causing any long-term problems. However, for some people, these negative feelings can become worse over time and lead to a mental health problem such as depression, anxiety, stress or obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). [5]
A disease or medical condition is an unhealthy state where something bad happens to the body or mind . [1] Diseases can cause pain , parts of the body to stop working the right way, or death. The word disease is sometimes used to include:
A disease can be caused by many things.  Sometimes germs enter our body through food, water or air.  A person can be infected by infectious agents like bacteria , viruses or fungus . Disease can also be caused by eating bad or old foods . There are small germs in old foods that can cause diseases. Sometimes the germs produce chemicals or toxins which causes the disease.
One of the most common causes of disease is poor sanitation and lack of clean water.  Some deadly diseases like malaria in tropical parts of the world are spread by a mosquito .  Animals that spread disease are called vectors . There are many vectors, including snails, ticks, and fleas.
Some people are born with ' genetic diseases'. These are diseases because of an error or mutation in a person's DNA . An example of a mutation is cancer . Living or working in an unhealthy environment can also be a cause for diseases. Diseases are more common in older people.
Medicine is the science that deals with diseases (illnesses) in humans and animals , the best ways to prevent diseases, and the best ways to return to a healthy condition. [1]
People who practice medicine are most often called medical doctors or physicians. Often doctors work closely with nurses and many other types of health care professionals.
Many doctors specialize in one kind of medical work. For example, pediatrics is the medical specialty about the health of children . [2] [3]
In this specialty, the doctor is trained to provide anaesthesia and sedation. [4] This is important for surgeries and certain medical procedures. Anaesthesiologists also provide pre-operative assessments, ensuring the patient is safe during the operation and successfully awakens from anaesthesia after the operation. They assess for medical conditions and suitability for anaesthesia. They screen for risk factors prior to surgery and try to optimize the operative environment for the patient and the surgeon. They are the doctors who give epidurals during labor and delivery, provide spinal blocks, local nerve blocks, and general anaesthesia for procedures. They are the doctors who are especially trained in intubation (putting a tube into the lungs to help a person artificially breathe when the person is paralyzed and asleep during surgery). Hence, due to their skill in intubation, they are often the first line responders for emergencies. They help people who are in distress with their breathing, who have lost their airway or when their airway has become obstructed.
The Abbott Laboratories [1] are an American pharmaceuticals and health care company. They have 90,000+ employees in over 130 countries. The headquarters are in North Chicago, Illinois . This organization was established by Wallace Calvin Abbott in 1888. Abbott's product line includes pharmaceuticals, nutritional, diagnostics, and vascular products.
The company has made drugs for rheumatoid arthritis , diabetes and other conditions. The company makes glucose monitoring devices for diabetics.
According to the Reuters report, Abbott acquired Alere for $4.48 billion, in April 2017. [2]
In September 2017,  Abbott announced that it has received Food and Drug Administration clearance for a consumer version of its Freestyle Libre flash glucose monitor, which does not require people with diabetes to routinely prick their fingers to check the glucose levels. [3] [4]
Abenomask is a Japanese political word named after Shinzo Abe . [1] It is used in Japan for two meanings: [2] [3] [4] [5]
Abenomask-like actions are taken in other regions including Spain [6] and the United States [7] etc.
In medicine , an acute disease or condition either happens for a short time, as in acute infection , or doesn't last long. The word acute may often be confused by the general public to mean ' severe '. This is different: something can be acute but not severe.
The word acute is in the name of many diseases, for example, severe acute respiratory syndrome or acute leukemia .
Acute hospitals are hospitals which are meant for short-term medical and/or surgical treatment and care. The related medical speciality is called acute medicine .
Subacute is described as between acute and chronic. An example is subacute fever symptoms or subacute endocarditis .
In medicine , an adverse effect is a harmful and undesired effect that results from a therapy like medication , chemotherapy , surgery or other intervention. An adverse effect may be called a "side-effect" (when it is less important than the therapeutic effect).
It may result from an unsuitable or incorrect dosage or procedure (which could be caused by medical error). Some adverse effects happen only at the beginning or a change of a treatment.
In many countries, adverse effects have to be reported and researched in clinical trials and included into the patient information accompanying medical devices and drugs for sale to the public.
An antiseptic is a substance that is applied to lesions or wounds of the skin to kill germs . This helps prevent the wound becoming infected .
Commonly used antiseptics include alcohol , iodine and mercury compounds . Antiseptics are different from antibiotics . Antiseptics can only be used on the skin, antibiotics can also be used internally, through the blood and lymphatic systems . They are also different from disinfectants : Disinfectants are used on non-living objects only, because they are dangerous to the living.

An antivenom is a medicine used to protect against a specific venom. (A venom is a poison released by a snake or insect.) Frequently the venom of some creature such as a cobra will be harvested and a little will be injected using a hypodermic needle into a horse every day for a long time. The horse's body will develop an immunity to the venom, so more and more venom from the snake can be injected every day. After the horse is immune, its blood can be drawn little by little to get the part of the blood that makes the horse immune. That part can then be injected into humans who have been bitten by cobras.
There are antivenoms for the very large and very dangerous funnel-web spiders found in Australia, and for the widow spiders (such as the black widow) found all around the world.
The Apgar score is used in medicine .  It is a quick way of measuring how healthy a newborn baby is.
Virginia Apgar invented the Apgar score in 1952. [1] [2] She was an anesthesiologist , and created the score to measure how babies were affected by anesthesia given to their mothers during childbirth .
Today, the Apgar score is very commonly used by doctors , nurses , midwives , emergency medical technicians (EMTs), and other medical professionals.  One of the reasons it is so popular is that doing an Apgar test is very quick.  It usually takes less than a minute, sometimes just seconds. [1]
When an Apgar test is done, five simple things about the newborn baby are checked.  The newborn gets a score of 0, 1, or 2 on each of these give things.  The scores are added up, and the total is the newborn's Apgar score.
Argon plasma coagulation (APC) is the medical procedure to stop bleeding from an active bleeding site of the gastrointestinal tract. It is done with the help of endoscopy technique.

Bacteria are used to test the effectiveness of disinfectants and antibiotics . Therefore, it is important that bacteria are not contaminated with other microorganisms . To prevent contamination, aseptic techniques are used.
These include:

A very important number for describing whether a disease can become an epidemic or not is R 0 , pronounced "R naught" or "R zero". It refers to how many people a person who has this disease is expected to infect on average. It is an abbreviation for basic reproduction number .
If R 0 > 1, a disease can become an epidemic. If R 0 < 1, it cannot. Many known diseases have R 0 < 1 and cannot become epidemics. If they occur only occasionally, they are called sporadic. When there is a steady level of regular cases occurring in a region, the disease is called endemic. Doctors can use vaccines to make enough people immune in a population to stop epidemics from happening. We can also use other measures to make the effective reproduction rate (R e , usually written R t with t for time) lower than the basic reproduction rate (R 0 ).
An example of a vaccine that works really well is the smallpox vaccine, which stopped smallpox virus from spreading so well that it no longer exists except in laboratories. Examples of making the effective reproduction rate lower than the basic reproduction rate are using condoms to stop sexually transmitted diseases from spreading or not getting close to others ( physical distancing , often called social distancing ) to stop respiratory diseases from spreading.
A beating heart cadaver is the body of a dead person that has been connected to a medical ventilator. This will keep the organs of the dead body, including the heart , functioning and alive for a few days. [1] Such a body still functions physically, but the person it belonged to is dead by the law and medicine 's definition because there is no longer any conscious brain function possible.
The procedure for caring for a beating heart cadaver is the same as caring for a normal patient. The body must be monitored at all times, and if necessary, "life saving" procedures must be taken. Since the brain does not work, the hormone levels and blood pressure must be controlled by doctors to keep the organs alive. Measures must be taken to prevent infection and maintain normal tissue oxygenation . [2]
A beating heart cadaver is kept alive in order to keep its organs from decaying before they can be transplanted. Surgeons will remove the organs, one after the other, and give them to their patients. [1] The entire recovery process is usually completed within four hours. [2] This process was formerly known as an "Organ Harvest", but the name has since changed to the milder "Organ Recovery." [1] Many organs can be used, and many lives can be saved by one body.  The bodies are generally organ donors , who have agreed beforehand to donate their organs. [3] Some donated organs are taken from non-heart-beating donors . [4] Organs from brain deaths , however, have a better success rate, and currently most organ donation is from these deaths. [5]
A beating heart cadaver is often disturbing and confusing. Because the heart is beating and the body is warm, people may have difficulty believing it is dead.  Families often like to see the body once it has been removed from the machines and put to rest. [2]
Behaviour therapy is used for a number of methods of psychotherapy . Ivan Pavlov found that it is possible to "learn" how to react to a stimulus . His method is known as classical conditioning today. Behaviour therapy tries to use this knowledge to change the behaviour of people. In that way, people "learn" how to cope with their fears, for example. In a similar manner, people can be helped to cope with a number of mental disorders . One well known kind of behaviour therapy is exposure therapy : People with fears are "exposed" to them, and learn how to cope. As an example, someone who is afraid of spiders will be exposed to spiders.
The word benign is often used to refer to a medical condition that will not become life-threatening if it is not treated , but can also mean that something is not harmful .  It is often used in relation to tumours that do not metastasise to other parts of the body .  Tumours that are referred to as being benign may still be life-threatening because of other reasons.  Because of this, the term applies mainly to their biological behaviour.
Tumors that are benign may be at risk of changing into malignancy .  These are termed " premalignant ".
Bioethics is a field of ethics in philosophy that studies the ethical, legal and social issues in medicine and biology . It is often used to study how the new discoveries in science will affect humans, animals and nature.

Biomedical engineering is the study of medical equipment used in an environment of care or training and how this equipment interfaces with the human body .
Biomedical engineers design , test , modify, recommend modification of, and evaluate all medical equipment used to interface or interact with the human body. In addition to these functions, clinical engineers usually supervise the biomedical equipment maintenance function within an environment of care. [1]
The medical devices include man-made hands, arms, and legs to replace lost ones and, also, Dialysis machines which clean the blood of a person with damaged kidneys.
A birth defect (or congenital disorder ) is a defect in a baby at birth, or which develop in the first month of life. [2] It is neutral as to whether the cause is genetic (inherited birth defect) or environmental (causes in the environment, that is, outside the foetus ).
If a condition is said to be "congenital", that is neutral language. Often it is not known what causes a condition found at birth. In common use, it is often redirected to "birth defect". That term is also neutral as to cause.
There are two main types of congenital defect. The first is caused by genetic abnormalities , which are hereditary . The second may be caused by conditions (such as infectious diseases ) which a baby may get. [3] However, we may not know what caused the condition.
Sometimes doctors may find out that a baby has a congenital disorder before its birth. They use prenatal diagnosis and screening tests, such as amniocentesis . [4]
In biology , a bolus (from the Latin word for ball ), is a ball-shaped living thing.
In medicine , a bolus is a large amount of a drug given to patients to raise the blood level before treatment.
A bolus can also refer to a ball of food after it has been chewed . It passes down the oesophagus by peristalsis .
Bowel obstruction , also known as intestinal obstruction , is a mechanical or functional obstruction of the intestines which prevents the normal movement of the products of digestion . [1] [2] Either the small bowel or large bowel may be affected. [3]
Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain , vomiting , bloating and not passing gas .

Brine is water that has more than 5% salt in it. It is used for preserving food . For this it is much like vinegar or sugar . Brine is also used to transport heat . Adding salt to water lowers the freezing point of the water. The solubility of salt in water depends on temperature. At 15.5 ° Celsius , a saturated solution of brine can hold 26.4 % salt by weight. At 0°, it can hold 23.3% salt.
Brines also have some pharmaceutical properties, which can be used to treat people, especially those with diseases of the skin , allergies and common colds . [1]
A pharmaceutical capsule is an easy way to take medication . Capsules may contain powder , liquid or oil . [1] The outer shell is made of hard or soft gelatin . Capsules come in different shapes and colors to identify dose or what company made them. [1] They are also available as timed release which work over a period of time. Capsules should usually be taken whole. Always consult a pharmacist or desk reference before opening a capsule. Capsules should also not be crushed without first checking to see if it is safe. [2]
Childbed fever is an bacterial infection of the female reproductive tract, which occurs after a woman has given birth or after a miscarriage . It is also known as postpartum infection , or puerperal fever . In the developed world, it affects about one to two percent of all births. It can develop into a life-threatening sepsis . Cesarean section is one of the risk factors. For this reason, all women undergoing a Cesarean section receive antibiotics .
In medicine a chronic disease or condition is one that takes a long time to heal (or go away), or one that comes again.  Many chronic diseases require special treatment, as this has to be done for a long time. A chronic disease can even last for a lifetime.

A clinical trial is one of the steps needed to introduce a new drug or therapy . Depending on the drug, either volunteers or patients suffering from a disease or condition are enrolled in a study. In general, a number of the people taking part will receive the real drug, or a good treatment, and the rest of the people will receive a treatment or drug that has no effect, called a placebo . These tests are statistical tests .
Examples of study designs:
Clinical trials were first introduced in Avicenna 's The Canon of Medicine in 1025 AD, where he laid down rules for the experimental use and testing of drugs . He wrote a precise guide for practical experimentation in the process of discovering and proving the effectiveness of medical drugs and substances . [1] He laid out the following rules and principles for testing the effectiveness of new drugs and medications , which still form the basis of modern clinical trials: [2] [3]
One of the most famous clinical trials was James Lind 's demonstration in 1747 that citrus fruits cure scurvy . [4] He compared the effects of various different acidic substances, ranging from vinegar to cider, on groups of afflicted sailors, and found that the group who were given oranges and lemons had largely recovered from scurvy after 6 days.
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy ( CBT ) is a type of psychotherapy which aims to help people transform their maladaptive thoughts and behaviours into a better state of being. Psychologists task patients to try out different situational coping skills and help patients to acknowledge, then challenge those problematic thought patterns , feelings and behaviors. [1] CBT refers to many types of psychotherapeutic systems that deal with cognitions , interpretations, beliefs and responses. These systems come from strategies commonly used in cognitive therapy and behavior therapy , combining them. [1] This combination is used to identify problems faced in the present and tries to improve the patient's current state of mind. [2]
CBT has emerged as a common treatment for concerns regarding moods. It has become increasingly popular for reasons such as its defined structure and that it is based on common sense. [3] Research shows that CBT is the most effective form of treatment for those coping with depression and anxiety. CBT alone is 50-75% effective for overcoming depression and anxiety after 5 – 15 modules. Medication alone is effective, however, science still does not understand the long-term effects on the brain and body. There is evidence which suggests that CBT may be more cost-efficient in the long run in comparison to medication. Although, a combination of medication and CBT seems to be the most effective in overcoming mental illness. In particular, antidepressants paired with CBT could reduce potential relapses in patients facing depression. [4]
CBT is often recommended for mood-related disorders such as depression and anxiety , but it can also treat personality disorders , post traumatic stress disorder and eating disorders . CBT can take place one-on-one between a therapist and a client, during group therapy, or online .
In the early 1900s, Austrian psychotherapist Alfred Adler’s notion of basic mistakes and their role in unpleasant emotions made him one of the earliest therapists to address cognition in psychotherapy. His work inspired American psychologist Albert Ellis to develop rational emotive behaviour therapy (REBT) in the 1950s. This is now considered one of the earliest forms of cognitive psychotherapy. It is based on the idea that a person’s emotional distress arises from their thoughts about an event rather than the actual event itself.
In medicine the term comorbidity is used to describe diseases and conditions that often occur together with another disease or condition. The first disease or disorder is called primary . In many cases, the primary condition or disease does not cause the comorbid disorders. However, they may both be caused or partly caused by the same thing, for example a genetic mutation or a traumatic experience.
As an example, a patient may have antisocial personality disorder and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder . The two conditions are comorbid . Another patient might suffer from borderline personality disorder , posttraumatic stress disorder and bipolar disorder . The three conditions are comorbid .
In medicine , compliance or adherence refers to the fact that a patient follows the advice of the doctor , and takes the prescribed drugs in the quantities prescribed. Compliance is important for the treatment of chronic diseases .
Worldwide, non-compliance is a major obstacle to the effective delivery of health care. In 2003,   the World Health Organization estimated that only about half the patients with chronic diseases living in developed countries follow treatment recommendations. [1] In particular, low rates of adherence to therapies for asthma , diabetes , and hypertension are thought to contribute substantially to the human and economic burden of those conditions. [1] Compliance rates may be overestimated in the medical literature, as compliance is often high in the setting of a formal clinical trial but drops off in a "real-world" setting. [2]
Some drugs are difficult to take, because they must be taken at a specific time or interval; sometimes, several drugs must be taken together. This is seen as a major obstacle to compliance.  Other factors that may adversely influence compliance are that many patients do not understand the benefits of being treated, or they see side-effects that they were not told about, the drugs costing a lot of money, poor communication or lack of trust between the patient and their health-care provider. [3] [4] Efforts to improve compliance have been aimed at simplifying drug packaging, providing effective medication reminders, improving patient education, and limiting the number of medications prescribed at the same time.
Cow urine (गोमूत्र "Gomutra" in Hindi) is used as medicine mainly in India where cows are considered as holy by Hindus . [1] In addition cow urine is consumed as a drink by people believing it to boost the immunity. [2] Cow urine is one of the five contents of Panchagavya meaning five products obtained from a cow ( urine , milk , ghee , curd and dung ). Cow urine is also used in folk medicine in Myanmar , Nepal and Nigeria . [3]
From ancient times it is used in Ayurveda medicine to treat leprosy , fever , peptic ulcers , liver diseases , kidney diseases , asthma , psoriasis , cancer and for weight loss in obesity . [4] [5] [6]
Cow urine is used in organic farming as a fertilizer and to protect crops from fungal infections. [7]
In addition cow urine is used as a floor cleaner and to manufacture cosmetic products like skin creams , bathing liquids and soap . [8] [9] [10]
Cryonics (from Greek kryos , which means 'cold') is the process of vitrifying a human (or animal) about −196 degrees Celsius (−321 degrees Fahrenheit; 77 kelvins) after a doctor says they are dead. People do that in hope that, in the future when medicine becomes better, they can have life again, solve their health problems and have eternal life .
Cold people like this are not awake at all as they have no brain activity . The law also says they are dead. Their body and its brain are made more like glass than ice because ice would harm their cells more. To do this, their blood is replaced with chemicals called cryoprotectants , which act like anti-freeze (stops to freeze).
There are five big cryonics companies:

A diagnosis is an accurate and precise account of the nature or cause of something.
Medical diagnosis is the best-known field, but diagnosis can be applied to any subject. Whereas a doctor diagnoses what is wrong with a patient, a motor mechanic can diagnose the fault in a car. In all cases they replace a vague query, such as "My car will not start", with an exact analysis , such as "It's out of petrol". Notice the diagnosis is precise enough so the solution can be seen.
These ideas work even in more subtle cases. A boy brings an insect in a box to a natural history museum. He asks an expert "What is this?" The expert says "You mean, apart from it being a beetle ?" When the boy nods, the expert looks at the insect under a magnifying glass, or a binocular microscope . Chances are, it is a common beetle, and the expert can give the boy quite a lot of information about it.
But if it is not known to the expert, a much longer study is needed. Large reference books will be consulted; trays of similar insects will be taken out of store to be compared. A full diagnosis needs at least the genus and species . If the species is unknown, the detailed work of description is needed for publication.
Doctor of Medicine ( MD , from the Latin Medicinæ Doctor meaning "Teacher of Medicine") is a doctoral degree for physicians (medical doctors). The degree is given by medical schools .
It is a professional doctorate / first professional degree (qualifying degree) in some countries, including the United States and Canada . Students need to have completed 90 to 120 credit hours of university level work  (see second entry degree ) and in most cases should already have a Bachelors Degree.
In other countries, such as the United Kingdom and Germany , the Doctor of Medicine is an advanced academic research degree similar to a PhD or a higher doctorate . [1] In Britain , Ireland , and many Commonwealth nations, the qualifying medical degree is the Bachelor of Science in Medicine, Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS, BMBS, BM BCh, BM, MB BCh BAO, or MB ChB) and is the same as the M.D. degree in the U.S. system.
In these countries it is illegal to prescribe scrips ( prescriptions ) and perform operations without the basic degree; also usual is the membership of appropriate medical and/or surgical societies. The societies (such as the British Medical Association ) act as a kind of sophisticated trades union for doctors. In the British system, the General Medical Council has legal authority for the medical register of doctors licensed to practice medicine. They can and do hold tribunals to decide whether doctors accused of misdeeds should be struck off the medical register. Therefore, to practice it is necessary not only to hold the medical degree(s), but also to be on the register.
The relationship between a doctor and a patient is a very important part of medicine . Only when there is a good relationship between the two is it possible to have high-quality healthcare . This relationship is also at the base of medical ethics . Many medical schools teach the doctors to be to keep a professional relationship with their patients, to respect the patients' dignity and privacy .
This relationship has asymmetric information though. The doctor knows more than the patient, but has to explain the patient's situation, and has to ask the patient what treatments should be done. There is a very similar relationship between the patient and nurses , psychologists .
There are different legal norms that regulate this relationship. Examples of such norms are the Hippocratic oath , the Declaration of Geneva . Professional responsibility may also govern such a relationship.
Ideally, patient and doctor trust each other. If they do, this can have a positive influence on the development of disease or condition. Healing can be hindered if the patient does not take the prescribed drugs , of if these drugs are not taken in the doses prescribed.
An Elizabethan collar , also called a, e-collar , lampshade or cone of shame is a piece of equipment used in veterinary medicine . [1] They stop the animal from licking or biting its body and from scratching or touching its head with its feet. [2]
The veterinarian places the collar around the neck of an injured animal so that it cannot bite or lick the injured part of its body.  For example, a dog with a cut on its skin might need medicine placed directly on the cut. The dog might try to lick the medicine and poison itself.  An animal that has had surgery might try to pull out its stitches .  An animal with a broken leg might bite into its cast and try to pull it off.  If it is wearing an Elizabethan collar, it cannot do this.
Some pet owners say their pets find it difficult to eat, drink and play while wearing an Elizabethan collar. [2] Veterinarians sometimes try other collars, like those made out of cloth, collars that look like inner-tube-shaped cushions, and collars that act more like a neck brace , stopping the animal from moving its head. [3]
Elizabethan collars are named after Elizabethan ruffs , stiff, starched collars that people wore in 1500s England.
ENCODE is the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements . Encode was launched in 2003 to identify all the functional elements (working bits) in the human genome . The work was done by over 400 scientists in 32 laboratories in the US , UK , Spain , Singapore and Japan . Their findings were published in 30 open-access papers in three journals, Nature , Genome Biology and Genome Research . It is the most detailed analysis to date of the human genome.
A simplified account of their main findings is as follows:
The methods used for the work included:
News items connected with this work are:
Eradication is the lowering of an infectious disease 's existence in the global host population to zero. [1] It is sometimes confused with elimination, which describes either the reduction of an infectious disease's prevalence in a regional population to zero.
A risk factor in medicine is something that causes, or helps to cause, a medical condition. 
For example, smoking or breathing in somebody else's tobacco smoke (called second-hand smoke) is a risk factor for emphysema and lung cancer .
A trigger factor causes the symptoms of a medical condition to begin in a person who already has that medical condition. Example: Smoking or breathing in someone else's smoke can be a trigger factor for asthma. The person already had asthma but the smoke caused an asthma attack. [1]

Fetal viability is a medical and a legal term. It describes the ability of an unborn child to survive outside the womb . For the first three months of pregnancy , the unborn child is called embryo , after that it is called fetus . Usually, children are born after 40 weeks of pregnancy. Very few children are born before the mother reaches 24 weeks of pregnancy. If they are born alive, very few will survive. About 50 to 70 percent of children born from the 25th week of pregnancy will survive. In the 24th week, the survival chance is 30 to 50 percent. The point at which the child has a 50 percent chance of surviving is called limit of viability .
The First Geneva Convention is one of several Geneva Conventions . It is more formally known as the Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded in Armies in the Field, 1864 . It covers the treatment of battlefield injuries and was made in 1864 as part of the making of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement .

Folding@Home is a distributed computing project that helps doctors at Stanford University learn about and cure diseases . [1] When parts of the human body do not work right, they make people sick. Folding@Home looks at the parts called proteins . When these proteins do not work right, they can make people sick with things like Alzheimer's , Mad Cow disease , and many types of cancer . [1]
The project uses the idle processing resources of thousands of personal computers owned by volunteers who have installed the software on their systems. Instead of using an expensive supercomputer many user's computers can do the same work. The software was first available for the Sony PlayStation 3 . [2] It can also run in a Google Chrome window . [2] It is now available for a wide variety of Android mobile devices . [2]
Genetic counselling , or counseling , is the process by which clients are advised about genetic disorders . Genetic disorders, by definition, can be passed on in heredity . Example: many descendents of Queen Victoria carried one or both alleles for haemophilia . It was a hereditary disease in European royal families.
Clients with a disorder may be interested in the probability of developing or transmitting a genetic disorder to their children. They may ask what the options are to prevent, avoid or improve it.
Facilities and rules vary in different countries. In the United States the National Society of Genetic Counselors defines genetic counselling as: [1]
A genetic counsellor is an expert with a Master of Science degree in genetic counseling. In the United States they are certified by the American Board of Genetic Counseling. [2] Most enter the field from biology , genetics , nursing , psychology , public health and social work . Genetic counsellors need to be expert educators, skilled in translating ideas into terms that are easy to understand.
Genetic screening in a broader sense includes biochemical tests for the possible presence of genetic diseases, or mutant forms of genes associated with increased risk of developing genetic disorders.
Most of the time, testing is used to find changes that are associated with inherited disorders. The results of a genetic test can confirm or rule out a suspected genetic condition or help determine a person's chance of developing or passing on a genetic disorder . Several hundred genetic tests are currently in use, and more are being developed. [2] [3]
Since genetic testing may open up ethical or psychological problems, genetic testing is often accompanied by genetic counselling .
The Germ theory of disease is a theory in biology . It says that small organisms (called germs ), also known as microbes , cause some diseases . These diseases are called infectious diseases . The germ theory states that small organisms cause a reaction in the body of those who are infected. The body's reaction to infection is called a disease.
Many scientists and doctors in history figured out that diseases are caused by microscopic organisms. Even after the microscope was invented, people still didn't know that germs caused diseases. People long believed that "bad air " from stinky trash dumps and from rotting meat was the cause of diseases. So people thought that covering their mouth and nose with a cloth would help filter out the "bad air." Scientists and doctors would use garlic and perfumes to ward off the bad air. But people still got sick and even died, so this theory was wrong. Polluted air is not the cause of disease.
One problem with the old theories of disease was that people believed that living things were spontaneously generated. Spontaneous generation is when something like a fly grows from a small speck of smelly meat. That old theory is called abiogenesis . In the seventeenth century, Francesco Redi (February 18, 1626 – March 1, 1697) discovered that flies lay eggs that become maggots . Prior to this, people thought that maggots came from rotting meat. He discovered this by sealing some meat in a jar and watching it. No maggots were found on the sealed meat. He also put some meat in a jar and covered it with gauze. Maggots were found on the gauze but not inside the jar. But when he placed meat in an open jar, maggots were found on the meat and inside the jar. Experiments like this proved that maggots come from flies who lay eggs, not from rotting meat. Later scientists would prove that diseases did not come from the air. Diseases are spread by infection.
Also in the eighteenth century, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek discovered the first microscopic organisms with a microscope. He was the first microbiologist. He saw some of the microscopic organisms that cause diseases, but he didn't know what they were. In 1700, Nicolas Andry thought that some of these microscopic organisms caused smallpox and other diseases. Over 100 years later, Agostino Bassi figured out what caused disease in silkworms . Ignaz Semmelweis was a doctor who figured out that if doctors washed their hands after touching dead people, that other patients wouldn't get sick. That was in 1847. It was about this time that sanitation and hand washing became popular with some, but not all doctors. Doctors began to use chemicals to cleanse wounds and clean their tools between each patient.
GISAID is open-access to genetic data of influenza viruses, [3] and the coronavirus responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic. [4] [5]
On January 10, 2020, the first whole-genome sequences of SARS-CoV-2 were made available on GISAID. This enabled global responses to the pandemic. [6] There was the first vaccines, [7] and diagnostic tests, [8] to detect SARS-CoV-2. GISAID helps watch for the emergence of new COVID-19 viral strains across the planet. [6] [9]
Its establishment was an alternative to sharing avian influenza data by conventional public-domain archives. [10] [3] [11] GISAID has given rapid exchange of outbreak data [11] during the H1N1 pandemic [12] [13] in 2009, the H7N9 epidemic [14] [15] in 2013, and the COVID-19 pandemic [16] [17] in 2020.
GISAID was recognized for its importance to world health by G20 health ministers in 2017, [18] and in 2020 the World Health Organization chief scientist called the data-science initiative "a game changer". [4]
Glasgow Coma Scale or GCS is a scale that is used to measure the consciousness of a person. It was invented in 1974 by Graham Teasdale and Bryan J. Jennett , professors of neurosurgery at the University of Glasgow.
GCS is used in evaluation of patients, especially in ICUs . This scale consists of three tests, which are described below. A score is given for each test, and the GCS score is calculated by adding the scores given to each test. The maximum score is 15, which means the patient is fully conscious. The minimum score is 3, and is usually seen in patients with brain death or those in deep coma .
The scale comprises three tests: eye , verbal (talking) and motor (movement) responses.
There are 4 grades for this test:
Health care or healthcare is the preservation of mental and physical health by preventing or treating illnesses through services offered by the health profession and its staff. Health care includes all reasonable and necessary medical aid, medical examinations, medical treatments , medical diagnoses, medical evaluations and medical services. The right to health care is considered one of human rights with international human rights law as well as social security .
A primary care doctor ( PCD ) or primary care physician ( PCP ) is a doctor who provides general medical care. These doctors can answer health concerns and medical conditions a patient may have. They also can prescribe medicine for their patients, based on information gathered.
In 1968, Victor Skumin proposed the term ″Culture of Health″, which has become widespread. [2] [3] The main task of a Culture of Health is to implement innovative health programs that support a holistic approach to physical, mental and spiritual health . [4] Holism is the idea that natural systems ( physical , biological , chemical , social , economic , mental , linguistic , etc.) and their properties, should be viewed as wholes, not as collections of parts.
According to Skumin, the culture of health is not only the mechanical connection of the two concepts —the concept of ″ culture ″ and the concept of ″ health ″. This is their synthesis , which forms a new quality, a new content. Skumin examines the culture of health as the specific science , that develops the theoretical and practical tasks of harmonious development of the spiritual, mental, and physical human force, forming of optimum environment, which provides a higher level of creativity of life. Thus, Skumin argues that the culture of health is a separate science, that creates new content. The main challenge of culture of health is the development of spiritual, mental and physical capabilities of man. 
In 1994, Skumin was elected to the post of the President-founder of the World Organisation of Culture of Health ( WOCH ) — International social movement "To Health via Culture". [5] [6]
Herd immunity (also called herd effect , community immunity , population immunity , or social immunity ) is a form of protection from infectious disease . This happens when a large percentage of a population has become immune to an infection, whether through previous infections or vaccination . [1] [2]
When many individuals have immunity, they do not spread the disease any more. This either stops or slows the spread of disease. [3]
A hospice is a type of medical treatment that helps take care of people who are very sick and have an illness that they will not be able to heal from. Many people staying in hospices have cancer or AIDS . [1] People who stay in hospices are expected to die soon, but sometimes they get better. Hospices are different from other medicinal treatments because they mostly try to make people feel better instead of trying to cure them. Hospice tries to allow people to die with as little pain as possible.
Hospices have doctors , nurses , and other people who go to patients houses, nursing homes and hospitals to talk to people who want to use hospice medicine.
The Hospice movement was started in England in the 1950s by a nurse named Dame Cicely Saunders. [2] The word Dame at the start of her name means that she did such good work starting hospices that the Queen of England made her a female knight .
A different nurse named Florence Wald brought hospice medicine to the United States because she worked with Dame Cicely Saunders and liked what she did.
The human microbiome (or human microbiota ) is the collection of microorganisms which live on us. They live on the skin, in the saliva and mouth, in the eyes, and in the gut and the rest of the gastrointestinal tract . They include bacteria , archaea , fungi and single- celled eukaryotes (' protozoa '). [1] Everyone carries around far more of these microbes than the number of human cells in the body. The human body has about 100 trillion cells , and carries about ten times as many microorganisms in the intestines alone . [2] [3] [4] [5]
The microbiome is "the ecological community of commensal , symbiotic , and pathogenic microorganisms that literally share our body space". [6] [7] The term was originally coined by Joshua Lederberg . He thought the microorganisms living in the human body in health and disease were important. Many scientific articles distinguish "microbiome" and " microbiota " to describe either the collective genomes of the microorganisms that live in an environmental niche or the microorganisms themselves, respectively. [8] [9] [10] However, by the original definitions these terms are largely synonymous .
Some of these organisms are useful for humans. However, most have no known effect. They are just symbionts : they live with us. Those which are expected to be present are members of the normal flora . Under normal circumstances they do not cause disease, but may even help our health. Studies in 2009 asked whether our health is damaged if we reduce this biota. [11] This is certainly the case with gut flora . [3]
Although "flora" refers to plants rather than bacteria, the term 'gut flora' is widely used and familiar to biologists. ' Biota ' refers to the total collection of organisms in an ecosystem . The term 'microbiota' is best for bacteria and other microorganisms, but no doubt 'flora' will often be used.
Hydrochloric acid is a chemical compound . It is a solution of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) gas that is dissolved in water . In the past, people called it muriatic acid . It is widely used in industry, and it is also made by the stomach to help digest food. Hydrochloric acid, like all acids , react with bases to produce salts ( chlorides ).
In high concentrations , hydrochloric acid can make acidic mists. Both the mist and the solution hurt human tissue. They are caustic , and can cause chemical burns . These can damage the eyes , the skin , the respiratory system , and other organs of the human body .
When hydrochloric acid is mixed with certain chemicals such as bleach , the toxic gas chlorine is made. When working with hydrochloric acid, certain safety measures should be taken. These include using rubber or PVC gloves , wearing goggles to protect the eyes, as well as special clothing that is resistant to chemicals.
Hydrochloric acid reacts with some metals, corroding them and making flammable hydrogen gas.
Informed consent is the right of a citizen who will undergo medical treatment or care to know about the kind of treatment or service that will be provided by the doctor as well as the procedures involved. It also includes the right to refuse any treatment or care without prior approval.
Informed consent is part of the medical ethics to avoid medical abuse or accidents. It has been admitted as one of the human rights in some international agreements, and also in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities .

An inhaler is a device for taking medications that are breathed in.
Inhalers are also called "puffers" by some people, and used for all sorts of respiratory problems including asthmatic disorders.
Interventional radiology is defined as the branch of medicine that diagnoses and treats a wide range of diseases using actions that are performed through the skin (for example an injection) or carried out with the least damage by x-rays , sonography , and so on.
Some of these procedures are done only for diagnostic purposes, while others are done for treatment purposes. Images are used to direct these procedures, which are usually done with needles or other tiny instruments like small tubes called catheters. The images provide road maps that allow the Interventional Radiologist to guide these instruments through the body to the areas containing diseases.
The Lancet is a weekly peer reviewed general medical journal . [1]
The journal was founded in 1823 by Thomas Wakley , an English surgeon . The word "lancet" has two meanings: a surgical knife, and an architectural term " lancet arch ", [2] a window with a sharp pointed arch. This might suggest  the "light of wisdom" or "to let in light".
The journal publishes original research articles, review articles (" seminars " and " reviews "), editorials, book reviews, correspondence, as well as news features and case reports. The Lancet has been owned by Elsevier since 1991. [3] The journal has editorial offices in London , New York , and Beijing .
Light therapy is a treatment where the patient is exposed to light . Depression , sleeping problems , and many skin disorders are treated with this therapy. The therapy consists of exposing the patient to a light source. The light source usually emits the full spectrum of light. Sometimes, this has to be done at a specific time of day.

Liraglutide (marketed with brand name Victoza ) is a Type 2 diabetes medication. It is a long-acting glucagon like peptide-1 agonist. It was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in early 2010.
This medication is a once daily treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
Medical abbreviations are a shorthand way of writing and talking by medical professionals (people who work to help sick people) to hurry explanation of diseases (sickness), patients, or medicines (drugs).
This shorthand can include shortening (making less lengthy) of longer disease names, by cutting the word down to its base (the Latin or Greek part that makes it). Medical professionals also create (make) words that mean something. An example of this is "stat", used to indicate (show) that something needs to be hurried (done faster). It is from the Latin "base word" statim, meaning quick. A very commonly (often) used shorthand is shortening things on order forms for patients. An example is, "pre-op" meaning |pre-operation| (patient who is being prepared for surgery ). These can be very complicated and extensive (meaning there is a lot of them).
Despite the fact that this shorthand might make it difficult for new Interns (new doctors ) or recently trained nurses to get used to this unofficial language, it has been shown to improve (make better) the speed of treatment in hospitals.
Medical authorities in the United Kingdom and elsewhere have questioned the use of medical shorthand; believing that it can lead to mistakes being made due to less clear communication and have advised doctors to avoid its use. [1]
In medicine , malignant is a clinical word that is used to describe an illness that kills a patient fast. A malignant tumor is a tumor that is able to invade nearby tissues and spread to tissues that are not nearby.  Not all patients diagnosed with malignant tumors die, because of the improved treatments available.  The actual prognosis depends on the type of tumor, its differentiation, and how bad the disease is.  The term malignant is typically applied to neoplasms that show aggressive behavior characterized by local invasion or distant metastasis .
A medical diagnosis ( an. Greek δια-γνωστικος — able to recognize) is when a doctor finds out what is making someone sick. [1] Sometimes doctors can diagnose a sickness by asking the person questions and looking at the person's body. Sometimes doctors do tests . Tests can mean taking a small bit of blood , urine , or tissue which is sent to a hospital laboratory where it is tested. X-rays are another form of test. Tests are ways to see how the body is working.
When a diagnosis has been made, the doctor may recommend treatment .
The process of diagnosis begins from the very beginning of the patient's examination in a medical institution or during a call to the doctor at the patient's place of residence. Diagnosis of the disease begins with the collection of medical history. After collecting the anamnesis, the doctor examines the patient, during which he performs percussion and auscultation of the patient, palpation of the disease, measures the patient's blood pressure , heart rate and respiration rate, and measures the patient's body temperature .
Laboratory examination methods include general clinical tests, which include a general blood test, a general urine test, and a stool test. Laboratory methods of examination also include biochemical methods of examination, during which the level of glucose, creatinine, urea, bilirubin, liver enzymes, blood lipids is determined; coagulogram, which analyzes the indicators of blood clotting; blood hormone tests; determination of tumor markers; tests of blood and other biological materials for infectious diseases; allergological , toxicological , cytological and parasitological examinations.
Medical ethics is the set of ethical rules that doctors follow. These ideas tell doctors how they should treat patients.
The earliest set of ethical ideas in medicine was the Hippocratic oath . (An oath is a special promise.) It was supposed to be written by Hippocrates but probably was not written by him.
There are 6 major principles (important ideas):
Here are some kinds of medical ethics questions:
The Medical Journal of Australia is a peer-reviewed medical journal . It is the official journal of the Australian Medical Association and began in 1914. It is published by the Australasian Medical Publishing Company Proprietary Limited (AMPCo).
The journal publishes editorials , articles, case reports, and letters. The full text of every issue since January 2002 is available on their website. [1]

Medical microbiology , also known as ‘’’clinical microbiology’’’, is the study of microbes , such as bacteria , viruses , fungi and parasites , which cause human illness and their role in the disease.
The microbes and the branch of microbiology are the most studied due to their great importance to medicine . [1]
Medical microbiology studies development and progress of the infectious disease in a patient and in human population ( epidemiology ). It is related to the study of disease pathology and immunology . It is a branch of medicine and microbiology and includes five sciences: bacteriology , virology , parasitology , immunology and mycology .
In 1546, Girolamo Fracastoro proposed that epidemic diseases were caused by transferable seed like entities through direct, indirect contact and contact over long distances with an infection .
The Medical Renaissance from 1400 to 1700 AD is a period of progress in European medical knowledge. There was a new interest in the ideas of the ancient Greeks and Romans . The medical discoveries during the Medical Renaissance paved the way for modern medicine. [1] [2]
Progress made during the Medical Renaissance depended on several things. [3] [4] By studying anatomy they learnt the positions of bones , muscles , and organs . Andreas Vesalius published De humani corporis fabrica (On the fabric of the human body) in 1543. [5] That was the first time in history that realistic diagrams of dissections were published.
Much later (1628) the Englishman William Harvey discovered that blood is pumped by the heart, travels through the body in blood vessels, and returns back to the heart in the circulatory system. [6] Thus basic facts of anatomy and physiology began to be understood by physicians . However, Harvey's work belongs to a later period. At the beginning of the period, in 1400, doctors were ignorant of physiology and had some (to us) pretty strange ideas.
In the renaissance, a very important theory in medicine was the Four humours or Four temperaments. This theory had begun with the Ancient Greeks , and influenced medical development until the 19th century. According to the theory, the body was filled with four different substances, called humours . When a person is healthy, these substances are in balance. When there is an imbalance between the humours, the person will be sick. The sickness can be cured by bringing the four humours back to balance. The four substances are: black bile , yellow bile, phlegm and blood . The Roman medic Galen still supported that theory, but refined it in many ways.
Medical Subject Headings ( MeSH ) is a way to keep track of for the purpose of journal articles and books in the life sciences; it can also serve as a thesaurus that makes searching easier. Created and updated by the United States National Library of Medicine (NLM), it is used by the MEDLINE / PubMed article database and by NLM's catalog of book holdings.
MeSH was introduced in 1963. The yearly printed version was discontinued in 2007 and MeSH is now available online only. [1] It can be browsed and downloaded free of charge through PubMed . Originally in English, MeSH has been translated into numerous other languages and allows retrieval of documents from different languages.
Medical Tourism is when patients visit other countries for medical care. The patients usually come from developed countries to find treatment at lower prices. Over 50 countries have identified medical tourism as a national industry. [1]
Examples of common medical procedures done for medical tourists are surgeries like joint replacement, heart surgery, cosmetic surgery , dental treatment , and addictions rehabilitation (or recovery from addiction). [2]
The term medical tourism can also be called medical travel, health tourism or global healthcare. it was initially developed by travel agencies and the mass media to describe the rapidly-growing practice of travelling across international borders to obtain health care.mainly it is for curing people and a lot of countries believe on this.
Countries that are popular for Medical Tourism are:
MedlinePlus is a free website that gives free consumer health information for patients , families, and health care providers. The site has information from the United States National Library of Medicine , the National Institutes of Health (NIH), other U.S. government agencies, and health-related organizations.  The U.S. National Library of Medicine produces and maintains the site.  MedlinePlus includes a companion site in Spanish, [1] which offers similar content for the Spanish-speaking community.  It also offers a mobile site in both English and Spanish optimized for display on mobile devices.  Over 150 million people from around the world use MedlinePlus each year. [2]
MedlinePlus contains:
Mental capacity in law is a term used to describe a person's ability to make decisions for themselves and to understand what those decisions will mean for them.
Sometimes, people who are unwell, such as those with illnesses which affect their memory ( Alzheimer's disease or Dementia ), those with learning difficulties , or who have mental health problems, may find themselves in a position where their ability to make decisions for themselves is questioned.  This may be because they do not understand that what they are doing is not good for them; they do not realise that it might make them ill or get them into trouble.
People can also lack capacity if they are unable to communicate in any way; for example, if they're in a coma or if they have severe brain damage .  In this case, it may be necessary for someone else, such as an advocate or a Judge to make decisions for them by making a court order .
In some countries, like the United Kingdom , laws exist which tell those working with people whose capacity might be in doubt, what they must do and how to decide if someone is capable of making their own decisions.  In the UK, this law is called the Mental Capacity Act (2005). [1] It lists 5 rules which must be used as a guide; in simple terms, they are:
A midwife is a professional in midwifery . Their education and training equips them to recognise the variations of normal progress of labor, and understand how to deal with deviations from normal.

A Mobile Army Surgical Hospital (or M.A.S.H. or MASH ) was a medical center used during wars , to care and fix injured soldiers who got hurt in the fighting. They were an alternative to field hospitals and real hospitals which were used in World War II . During the Korean War , thanks to these kinds of hospitals, soldiers had a 97% chance of surviving an injury. They were also used in the Vietnam War and the first Gulf War , but were gradually replaced by Combat Support Hospitals or CSHs which are used today.
Many people know about these places due to a well-known movie and later TV show called M*A*S*H , which was set was a hospital like this during the Korean War .

A morgue is a place where dead human bodies are kept for a short time soon after the person died. Sometimes, the body is examined by autopsy . Most often, the body is delivered to a mortuary and buried in a grave or cremated . Morgues are found in hospitals , usually on the lowest floor or basement.

Naturopathy is a form of alternative medicine . It is based on the belief that a special energy called "vital energy" guides bodily functions such as metabolism , reproduction and growth . [1] Naturopaths mostly use holistic forms of treatment. They generally avoid the use of surgery and drugs . Many naturopaths reject modern science.
Naturopathy is not supported by science. [2] The medical community does not believe that it works. [2] [3]
The term "naturopathy" comes from Greek and Latin. It means "nature disease". [4] Modern naturopathy developed from the Natural Cure movement in Europe. [5] [6]

An online pharmacy is a pharmacy that operates on the Internet to sell medications to consumers.  There are online pharmacies in many countries of the world—from India, the U.S., Germany, the UK—and many other nations that sell to consumers in their own countries and often to consumers worldwide.
Depending on its location and local regulations, an online pharmacy may or may not require prescriptions to purchase prescription medications.
Prices at a given online pharmacy can vary from one city or country to another.  Typically, drug prices at online pharmacies located in countries with drug price controls in place (i.e., India, UK, Germany, South Africa) will have more affordable costs.  In contrast, costs at pharmacies in countries where there are no drug price controls (i.e., U.S.) will usually be much higher.  Especially for consumers seeking low-priced medications, it can be very worthwhile to compare prices at various online pharmacies.  Prices can vary as much as 80 percent or more for one medication from one country to another.

The opioid crisis or opioid pandemic is the problems with opioid drugs .  Too many people became addicted to opioids. [1]
The crisis started in the United States in the 1990s.  Since then, about 450,000 people have died from opioids in the United States. Most of the people who died took opioids as regular drugs and became addicted. Only a small number of people used the drugs illegally. According to the United States Centers for Disease Control, the opioid crisis costs $78.5 billion a year in the United States alone. [1]
Opioids are moderately strong, to strong painkillers . Despite the high risks, associated with addiction and overdose, they are relatively easy to get. Opioids can have sedative properties. They are useful for treating actute pain; [2] but they are not as effective when treating chronic pain. [3] When looking at chronic pain, the risks often outweigh the benefits. [3]
In 1996, the company Purdue Pharma wanted to sell a number of drugs containing opioids.  They told doctors that patients would probably not become addicted, so the doctors prescribed opioids to many patients, even if they did not really need them.  Many of those patients became addicted. [1] In 2007, Purdue Pharma was fined $635 million.  The judge said this was because Purdue Pharma did not warn customers about the side effects enough. Since then, there have been other similar lawsuits .
An oxygen concentrator is a machine that takes in air and takes out some of the nitrogen (as N 2 ) so there is more oxygen (as O 2 ). This new air with more oxygen is then given to a patient during oxygen therapy .
Oxygen therapy , also called supplemental oxygen , is when oxygen gas (O 2 ) is used for medical treatment by giving the gas to the patient for inhalation . [1] It can be used for ilnesses like hypoxia , carbon monoxide toxicity , and cluster headaches . [2] It can be used over a long time for people who suffer with illnesses that lower oxygen levels in the blood like COPD and cystic fibrosis . [3] It can be given in a few different ways such as through a nasal cannula , face mask , or inside a hyperbaric chamber . [4] [5] Oxygen levels need to be high enough for respiration to keep a patient healthy and for normal cell metabolism . [6]
A patient is a person receiving medical care and/or treatment.
A peripheral nerve block (or simply nerve block ) is when the signals travelling along a nerve are blocked. This is usually done deliberately, usually as a form of anesthesia . Such a block can last between a few hours to a few weeks.
A pharmacy is a shop where therapeutic drugs are sold. Sometimes a pharmacy is also called a drug store or chemist and druggist store . The people working in a pharmacy are called pharmacists , druggist or chemists (British English). These people can recognise simple diseases and formulate or dispense drugs for some of them.
Certain drugs are special, because they can be addictive , or they change the way other drugs act, or they need to be taken in a special way. These drugs cannot simply be bought at a pharmacy. A prescription is necessary to get them. Medical doctors give out prescriptions, which can then be used to get the drug.
Many pharmacies do not sell drugs only. They also sell beauty products and hygiene -related products, like tampons for women and contraceptives .
Pharmacy is also a branch of chemistry that studies the molecular structure of drugs to find better drugs.
Physical dependence is a term used in medicine : If a drug is taken regularly, a certain level of tolerance may have developed. Abruptly stopping to use the drug will cause drug withdrawal symptoms. If the drug has been taken for a longer period of time, or the dosage was higher, the withdrawal symptoms will be more severe. Well known drugs with withdrawal symptoms include opioids , alcohol , and may of the drugs knownn as neuroleptics .
Physiotherapy is also called "physical therapy". It attempts to treat what limits a person's abilities to move and do things in their daily life. [1]
It is the treatment of disease, injury, deformity or disability to improve the quality of life. Physiotherapists use exercise, hands-on technique, patient education and various modalities.
Physiotherapy plays an important role in the recovery of stroke patients. It also plays a major role in treating children with cerebral palsy , and in cardiopulmonary rehabilitation .
Physiotherapy has three main categories which are orthopedics , neurophysiotherapy , and cardiorespiratory physiotherapy . Sports physiotherapists specialise in the strains and injuries caused to sportspeople.
A Plague doctor was a doctor in the 1300s who tried to stop plague from spreading.
The doctors would also carry canes to poke bodies to test if they were still alive and to remind them to stay the correct distance away.  The doctors could also examine patients using the cane.  The doctors would wear large masks that looked like birds' beaks.  This was because people believed the plague spread on bad air.  The beaks of the masks were filled with plants, vinegar sponges, or perfume to protect the doctor from the bad air.  Plague doctors wore robes covered in wax so body fluids would not stick to it.  They wore glass goggles over their eyes.  They would wear goggles if they could. [1] [2]
People in the Venetian Carnival dress as plague doctors. [1]
Plumpy'Nut is a peanut -based paste wrapped in plastic, used to treat severe malnutrition . It's manufactured by Nutriset , a French company. [2] [3] The paste removes the need for hospitalization , and the 92-gram (3¼ oz) packages of it can be eaten at home and allows larger numbers of people to be treated.

Prenatal testing or Prenatal diagnosis are tests done on pregnant women. They are used to test fetuses for birth defects and some genetic disorders .
Prenatal tests can be non-invasive or invasive.  Non-invasive tests include things like utrasounds . In invasive tests, a needle is inserted - for example, to get a sample of fluid from the placenta ).
Prenatal tests can check for many conditions, like:
In some cases, the tests are administered to determine if the parents want to abort the fetus.
Prognosis refers to the expected course/outcome of a disease .
Prophylaxis is a Greek word and concept . It means any action taken to guard or prevent beforehand . The corresponding adjective is prophylactic .
The concept of prophylaxis has two parts. First is forethought . A person has to realise the need first of all. Second is taking appropriate action .
Any failure of prophylaxis is a failure at either stage 1 or stage 2. Successful prophylaxis means one has anticipated and avoided some undesirable outcome .
Prophylaxis is the central idea in preventative medicine . People usually think medical treatment helps sick people to get healthy. Prophylactic treatment is helpful in a different way. Primary prophylaxis tries to stop healthy people from getting sick. Secondary prophylaxis tries to stop people who are sick from getting worse.
Pseudoallergy is something a living body does when it takes a new medicine for the first time.  A pseudollergic response, can mean an anaphylactic reaction, which means too much water leaves the blood.  A pseudoallery is not an immune response.  Human beings can die from pseudoallergies. [1]
Psychopathology is the study of mental illnesses . It was started by Karl Jaspers in 1913.

Public health is the science dealing with prevention there is a disease that is a threat to the overall health of a community, as well as with prolonging life and promoting health . [1] The aims are achieved through the organized efforts and informed choices of society, public and private organizations, communities and individuals.
It bases on health analysis of a handful of people or all the inhabitants of several continents rather than on an individual.  Public health includes such parts as epidemiology , [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] biostatistics , [9] health services, environmental , social, behavioral , and occupational health . [10]
Public health intervention prevents rather than treats a disease through surveillance of cases and promotes healthy behaviors such as hand washing , vaccination programs and distribution of condoms . In outbreaks of an infectious disease , treating a disease may be vital to preventing it in others.
Most countries have their own government public health agencies, sometimes known as ministries of health, to respond to domestic health issues. Many diseases are preventable through simple, non-medical methods. Public health plays an important role in disease prevention efforts in the developing world and in developed countries, through local health systems and through international non-governmental organizations . In the developing world, there may not be enough trained health workers or monetary resources to provide a basic level of medical care and disease prevention.
PubMed is a free online database of references on life sciences . [1] It was established in January 1996. [2] The United States National Library of Medicine (NLM) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) maintains the database. [1]
Each record in the PubMed database is assigned a special number to identify it. [1] This is the PMID , an acronym for " P ub M ed ID entifier" number. [3] PMIDs do not change over time and they are never reused. [4] Any PMID is only a number. The PMID tells the reader nothing about the type or quality of the content of any publication.

A randomized controlled trial is a special method of doing a scientific experiment which can reduce certain  sources of bias . It is often used in the context of testing whether drugs are effective against a set of symptoms . When doing the test, the participants are randomly put into different groups. Each group is treated differently, and at the end the results are compared. A common case is that one group will receive a placebo drug, while the other will receive the real one. The trial is called blinded , if the participants, or those giving the drugs do not know what group a patient is in.
Controlled studies and trials have been done for a long time. In 1753, James Lind published a study that shows that scurvy could be treated by a diet including many lemons and oranges . Ignaz Semmelweis , a Hungarian doctor in Vienna, established the term "systematic controlled observation". Semmelweis is known today because he linked an increase in childbed fever to missing hygiene in hospitals . At the end of the 19th century, the first problem of not assigning people to test groups randomly became apparent. Austin Bradford Hill established the term "randomized controlled trial" in the 1940s. He did a study regarduing the treatment of tuberculosis with Streptomycin (an antibiotic) in the 1940s. This study is seen as thew first randomized controlled triall. [1]
Reaction Agostini is the name of a simplified examination for the presence of glucose in human urine .
The method consists of preparing a solution of sodium chloride and potassium oxide , adding the urine to be investigated. If there is glucose present, the solution becomes red. [1]

The Royal College of Physicians of London was the first medical group in England to receive a Royal Charter. It was created in 1518 and is one of the most active of all medical groups. It was originally created as the College of Physicians by royal charter of King Henry VIII in 1518.


In medicine , saline refers to any solution of salt in water ; that is, salt water . Such solutions are sterile when they are to be placed into the body by infusion or injection . If the solution has more salt in it than is found in the human body, it is called hypertonic saline . The normal salt level is 0.9% and any salt amount more than 0.9% is called hypertonic.

Septic shock is a medical condition which can result from sepsis . Sepsis is a special form of infection . With septic shock, the circulation of blood changes or stops. This makes septic shock a medical emergency ,which is usually treated in intensive care . Between a quarter and half the people with the condition die.
Treatment is usually done in the following steps:
Social distancing , also less confusingly called physical distancing is one way to help stop the spread of infection from viruses and bacteria between people. The goal is to lower the chance for an infection to spread from person to person. This can reduce the number of infected people at one time, which lowers the burden on health care. By lowering the number of people who get sick, lives can also be saved. [1] [2]
Social distancing works for infections that are spread by droplets (cough or sneeze), physical contact, contaminated surfaces, or in the air. [3] Social distancing does not work well for infections that are spread through food, water, or insects. [4]
Types of social distancing are:
All of these may have negative effects on people. [12] [13] [14] However, these may be preferred to the effects of a specific disease.
The therapeutic index is a number that tells how safe it is to use a drug. It is obtained by dividing two numbers: the dose needed so that half of all individuals show the desired effect, and the dose which will kill half of all the individuals.
Therapy , in the medical field also called treatment , is what people do to try to solve or care for a health problem, physical or mental . When a person is ill or injured , a doctor may make a medical diagnosis and then recommend a therapy to try to make the person well.  The therapy can be, for example, medications (drugs), surgery or a change of diet .
A person who does therapy as a job is called a therapist. There are many kinds of therapists. [1] for example:
Medical treatments may have four results:

Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is a branch of traditional medicine from China . It is at least 3,500 years old. Treatments include herbal medicine , acupuncture , cupping , massage , and exercise . Since the methods of TCM are different from Western medicine , it is hard to find evidence that shows how safe or good TCM really is.
Many of the most important ideas in TCM are based on the teachings of Daoism . Based on the teachings of TCM, it is important to balance the five elements in a person's body: wood, fire, earth, metal, and water. Each element also has something called yin and yang , or opposite values that must exist alongside each other rather than to overcome the other. The way to balance the yin and yang is to strengthen qi , or an invisible force that brings balance to the yin and yang . Knowing the five elements and the yin and yang is important because each organ of the body is related to one of the five elements. It is important to strengthen a person's qi because balancing the yin and yang of a person's organs is important for people to be healthy. [1] The different treatments in TCM are made to bring balance to the elements in a person's body.
These ideas are similar to, but not the same as, the four temperaments , which was an widely-believed theory in European medicine before scientific medicine was created.

Traditional medicine is a branch of medicine where treatment is based on knowledge passed on within certain cultures before the era of modern medicine.

The Unité de formation et de recherche médicale Paris Île-de-France Ouest (in English Paris Île-de-France West Medical Research and Training Departement; also called PIFO or Paris Ouest ) is a department of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines [1] focus on research and training activities in medicine .

Veterinary medicine is a branch of medicine that deals with the health of animals . It is the study and practice of preventing, diagnosing and treating disease and injuries in animals. Veterinary medicine covers all species of animals, including both domesticated animals and wild animals.
People who study and practice veterinary medicine professionally are called veterinarians (often known as "vets").
Veterinary science tries to help human health by monitoring and controlling zoonotic diseases ( infectious diseases transmitted from animals to humans).

