https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pain
Pain is a symptom of being hurt or sick. It is a bad sensation that is physical and emotional.
Most pain starts when part of the body is hurt. Nerves in that part send messages to the brain . Those messages tell the brain that the body is being damaged . Pain is not just the message the nerve sends to the brain. It is the bad emotion felt because of that damage.
The message that the nerve sends to the brain is called nociception . What is experienced because of the nociception is pain.
Pain can be acute or chronic . Acute means it only happens a short time. Chronic means the pain lasts a long time.
https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abdominal_pain
Abdominal pain (also called a stomach ache ) is a pain or ache in the abdomen . It can be caused by different things, including food poisoning , indigestion , constipation , gastritis , an ulcer , hunger , appendicitis , stomach cancer or diverticulitis .

https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anesthetic
An anesthetic or anaesthetic is a substance that stops pain .  It makes people either stop hurting, or go completely to sleep during surgery .  Anesthetic can be rubbed onto the skin, given by injection ("shot"), or given as a gas to breathe .  The use of an anesthetic is called anaesthesia.  Anaesthesia blocks the pain during operations.  This lets patients undergo surgery and other procedures without the distress and pain they would normally feel.  It comes from Greek roots an-, "without" and aesthetos, "perceptible, able to feel".
The modern anesthetic was created by Joseph Lister .  Before it, people sometimes used cocaine , alcohol , and other drugs. Modern anaesthesia is highly complex and often involves a combination of anaesthesia, analgesia and muscle relaxation to enable physicians to do their part. These three tasks are known as the triad of anaesthesia.

https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibromyalgia
Fibromyalgia is a condition with chronic pain . The exact causes are not known. However, symptoms are not totally restricted to the pain. There are also sleep disturbances, joint stiffness and severe fatigue. The problem sometimes exists along with depression , stress and anxiety . Fibromyalgia affects mostly women, though men can also be affected. Adults are usually the victims, although children may also be affected.

symptoms-
widespread pain,if you have fibromyalgia,one of the main symptoms is most likely to be widespread pain...
Extreme sensitivity...
Stiffness...
fatigue...
poor sleep quality...
congnitive prombles [ fibro-fog]
https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Headache
A headache is when your head hurts. It is not when you hit your head with something and made it hurt that way, but when your head hurts from inside.
A headache can be caused by one of several things, which are listed here:
The second edition of the International Headache Classification (ICHD-2) defines more than 220 different types of headaches in three categories: [1]
Many headaches can be relieved with analgesics like aspirin .
https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interstitial_cystitis
Interstitial cystitis ( IC ), also called bladder pain syndrome ( BPS ), is a disease that causes pain in the bladder . [3]

https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Migraine
A migraine is a medical condition which usually causes a pounding, throbbing headache on one side of the head. The pain may be very bad and hurt so much that a person may have a hard time doing anything. While most people who have migraines get a headache, not everyone does. There are different kinds of migraines, and some do not cause a headache but do have other symptoms .
Most migraines cause a headache and nausea and might make the person dizzy or very sensitive to bright lights or loud noises. Some people have " auras " before a migraine starts, which means their ability to see becomes different. They may see funny patterns, have blurry vision, or may not be able to see at all. Other senses can change before or during a migraine, and the person may sense funny smells or tastes. Migraines can last a long time. Migraines usually last between four and 72 hours.
Migraines have been classified, based on how often they happen in a month: If a person has a headache for less than fifteen days, the migraine is called episodic migraine (EM).  If it happens more than fifteen days, it is called chronic migraine (CM). Chronic means it happens over a long amount of time. Some people who start off getting episodic migraines may start to get chronic migraines later. Chronic migraine then may revert or go back to episodic migraine.
Scientists have discovered that something called CGRP is the cause of migraines. CGRP stands for "calcitonin gene-related peptide". CGRP is a protein that causes migraines when it is released around the brain. What CGRP does, is that it causes a lot of inflammation in the meninges , a covering above the brain.
https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myalgia
Myalgia means " muscle pain " and is a symptom of many diseases and disorders. The most common causes are the overuse or over-stretching of a muscle or group of muscles. Myalgia without a traumatic history can be due to viral infections .

https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neck_pain
Neck pain is a common problem, and two thirds of people will experience neck pain at some point in their lifetimes. Although neck pain is felt in the neck, it can also be caused by many other spinal problems.
Neck pain may be caused by tight muscles in the neck and upper back or compression of the spinal nerves in the neck. Injuries to the joints of the neck and upper back can also cause pain.
https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pain_disorder
Pain disorder is a condition where a patient experiences chronic pain in different places in the body; this pain seems to be caused by psychological stress . Treatment of the condition can be done with either therapy or drugs .

https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sore_throat
Sore throat or throat pain is pain in a person's throat .
About 7.5% or ​ 3 ⁄ 40 of people have sore throat in any three-month period. Most of the time, it is caused by viral pharyngitis . It can also be caused by bad tonsils , trauma , strep throat , tumors , and other problems.
Treatment varies with the different causes, but the painful symptoms can be helped with medicine such as cough drops or, in China , pear-syrup candy .
https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suffering
Suffering is pain or mental or emotional unhappiness caused by bad things happening, like disasters or illness . It is an important topic in philosophy , and religion . Much health care exists to help people who are suffering.

https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tension_headache
A tension headache is a common form of headache . Tension headaches affect the head , eyes and nearby areas of the body. They are very common with adults. Females are twice as likely as males to have them. [1]
Tension headaches may be caused by:

https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toothache
A toothache is a pain felt in a person's tooth , normally when the tooth is hurt. A tooth can be hurt by tooth decay caused by plaque or by an injury .

